FDI, Export Targets to Propel Sustoingbility
Adoption in Vietnam's Garment ơnd Textile
Sector
stei Vietngm Briefing tte Vụ Nguyen Hơønh e‹ e: ó minutes
The stơgkes ơre high for Vietnam's gorment ønd textile sector ơs key exports mgarkets ønd competing producer
morkets intensify their push for green tørgets, Influencing brand gơppedl to consumers ơnd sourcing decisions
by globol foshion retoilers.
According to the Vietngm Textile and Appgrel Association (VITAS), øs
of the end of Møy 2024, Vietngm's textile ơnd garment sector had
dttrgcted over US$37 billion in foreign direct investment (FDI). This
substơntial inflow underscores the sector's potential, pørticularly ơs
FIND BUSINESS SUPPORT
Sustainability & ESG Compliance
/Í// global mơorkets shift towdrds sustaøingble development.
Vietnam textile and garment businesses ơgre now compelled to
strdtegize ơ green trơnsition to ensure they retơdin competitiveness in
the global fashion ơnd textile market, which has doubled down on the pivot to sustaingbility. Maintoining
Unrestricted mơrket gccess mơgy hinge on gdopting green prdgctices ơønd improving the environmental, social,
dnd governgnce (ESG) profiles of suppliers.
Vietngơm's textile and garment sector: Overview ơnd chollenges
After ơ yedr of negotive growth i¡n 2023, Vietngm's textile and garment sector Is showing signs of recovery.
The Generdl Statistical Office (GSO) reported ơ 4.6 percent incregse In the sector's export value, reaching
US$16.5 billion in the first hơlf of 2024. The month of June dlone recorded ơø 2 percent monthly rebound to
US$316 billion, driven primogrily by the recovery of the US mơarket.
The growth in the prices of vqrious fibers aønd the value of imported fdgbrics gre key indicgtors for Improving
order volumes.
Additiondlly, Vietnam's purchơsing mơnggers Index (PMI) in June hød
FIND BUSINESS SUPPORT spiked to 54.7 points, ơnother optimistic sign for mơnufocturing
How Dezan Shira and Associates can Gctivities goïng Into the second holf of 2024.
help companies succeed within the
manufacturing industry Despite these positive trends, the garment and textile sector fogce
//// challenges. Currency depreciadtion ơmong key competitors like
Banglodesh, Indonesia, and Mexico is hompering Vietngơm's price
competitiveness. Additionglly, g Ó percent incregse Iin the minimum
woge from July 2024 is expected to pressure compadny profit mgœrgins,
Qs sdles prices remoin stagngnt.
Vietnam's Textile and Garment Industry (H1 2024)
Export turnover in 2024 (Projected): US$44 billion
ư Growth rate: 5.04% y-o-y
'/ẳ Industry annual growth rate (Projected): 8-10%
U
I
9= FDI capital:USS37 billion; 3,500 projects (As of May 13, 2024)
=
EE5)
¬
¬ Z
( l FDI ñrms made up 65% of total export revenues (As of May 13, 2024)
â Leading localities with FDI firms in textile and garment sector:
Dong Nai, Binh Duong, Tay Ninh, Long An, Nam Dinh, Hai Duong, and Binh Phuoc
Source: G5O, Vietnam Textile and Apparel Assoclatlon (VITAS)
Graphic©Asia Briefing Ltd.
Raqpid enforcement of sustơingble policies worldwide
The globol shift towords prioritizing sustơingble growth is accelerơting, with enterprises ønd industriol
orgơnizadtions gdvocgting for greener business models and governments issuing relevant green policies.
The EU: Transition from voluntagry to mơndatory compliance
As of the end of 2023, the Europeøn Union glone discussed up to Tó laws related to fashion ơnd textiles, which
qre expected to be effective from 2024. These legal documents will reguløte the entire foshion vølue chơain
from products to marketing designs, impgcting consumers ơnd componles globdlly.
These efforts Indicate the shift from voluntogry policies to mơndatory obligations on the pơrt of businesses and
supply chơin vendors with regdrds to sustơøingble development within the EU. Textile and gorment
mơnufgcturers selling to the EU should monitor potential changes in EU reguløtions to better gơpprooch this
morket:
EU Strơtegy for Sustøingble ønd Circulor Textiles: lt was introduced in June 2O23 to ơchieve climate
neutradlity. The strGtegy concerns producing ønd consuming textiles while recognizing the sectors
importgnce. Ít Implerments commitments mơde under the Europeøn Green Dedl, the Circular Economy
Action Plan, and the Europeon industridal strotegy.
Digitơøl Product Possport (DPP): The DPP is a regulotory frAmework for implementing transpgrency on
Product informgtion and gccelerating the transition to ơ circular economy. It will be mơøndogtory for most
end-use ơnd intermediate products sold i¡n the EU by 203O, meơøning dll firms selling products in the EU
will be affected by the DPP.
EU Green Claim Directive: The directive gims to prevent greenwashing by requiring componies to
reinforce their environmentgl commitments with evidence verified by independent bodies.
Woste Framework Directive (WFD): Extended producer responsibility (EPR) schemes were proposed in
the 2023 revision to the directive. EPR will apply møơndgtory fees for EU fashion brands and textile
Producers to fund the collection and tregtment of textile wagste. Effective 3O months after VWVED comes
Into force, the EPRSs fee structure will be based on the circularity ơnd environmentơl performgnce of
textile products (known ơs eco-modulation). EU ministers have ggreed to include microenterprises in
their scope.
Corporote Sustoingbility Reporting Directive (CSRD): Compadnies must report sociøl and environmentol
Informdtion using the CSRDS standgrdized framework. Non-EU compaơgnies that generdote over
€150 million (US$163 million) in the EU mơrket will also have to report.
US sustaơinagbility regulations
In the US, severol states have engcted sustaingbility regulations:
Cdliforniag Sengte Bill No. 253 (pøssed)
Sengte Bill No. 253 was gpproved by the California governor ơønd filed with the Secretary of State on October
7, 2023. This bill adds Section 38532 to the Health and Safety Code, relating to greenhouse gơses, ơnd mokes
ơn gppropridgtion for ïts I¡mplementotion. The section Is officially khown ơs the Climgte Corporate Data
Accountobility Act. lÍt requires businesses operdting in Colifornia with ơnnudl revenues exceeding US$1 billion
to report their greenhouse gơs emissions gcross ơll three scopes:
› Scope 1 emissions: Direct greenhouse gơs emissions from sources owned or directly controlled by the
reporting entity, Including but not limited to fuel combustion gctivities.
› Scope 2 emissions: Indirect greenhouse gaơs emissions from the consumption of purchøsed electricity,
steam, hedting, or cooling, regaơrdless of location.
› Scope 3 emissions: Indirect upstreơm ơnd downstreơm greenhouse gơs emissions not included in Scope
2, from sources not owned or directly controlled by the reporting entity. This includes, but Is not limited
to, emissions from purchơsed goods ønd services, business trqvel, employee commutes, and the
Processing ơønd use of sold products.
New York Sustơingbility ơnd Social Accountơbility Act (proposed)
Also known øs the New York Fashion Act, Sengte Bill S4746B proposes thơt foshion sellers in New York be held
œccountgble to stơandardized environmentdl and social due diligence policies and estøblish ø fashion
remediation fund. Any gpparel or footwedgr compơny doing business in New York with ơn ønnudl global revenue
of US$1OO million is subject to this bill.
As of July 2024, the bill lies with the Sengte Committee on Consumer Protection. Versions of the bill have
been stuck in legislơtion for two yegrs.
Business ơctions for ơ greener textile and garment sector
The Fgshion Industry Chơrter for Climgte Action, an initiative spearhegded by UN Climate Change, gims to
guide the fashion sector towards ơchieving net-zero greenhouse gơs emissions by 205O. As of Februgry 22,
2023, 99 signgtories, including 68 brands ønd retgilers and 31 mơønufocturers, hove pledged their support,
SUFPGSSIng previous industry-wide commitments. The charter gims for øơ 30 percent reduction ¡n greenhouse
gơøs emissions by 2030 aønd sets oUt ơ plan for gchieving decarbonization within the fashion industry by 205O.
The charter qligns with the three scopes of emissions outlined in the Greenhouse Gơs Protocol Corpordte
Stondord:
› Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gaơs emissions from sources owned or controlled by the compony.
› Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the generdtion of purchơøsed electricity consumed by the compogny.
› Scope 3: Other indirect emissions resulting from the compgnys gctivities but occurring from sources not
owned or controlled by the compgny. Scope 3 includes 15 optiondl reporting categories that cover gll
other indirect emissions.
Signgtories to the chơrter dre incregsingly reporting their “"operdtiongl emissions" datg under Scope 1and 2
ơnd gre verifying this dotg through third-pgrty verification. Addlitiondlly, there has been Ơ 2O percent increase
In signdtories committing to disclose their Category 1 (purchaøgsed goods ønd services) emissions within Scope
3. In 2022, 77 percent of signgtories provided their Scope 3 estimgtes through the corporgte cơrbon footprint
platform (CDP).
Prospects in Vietnam's textile and garment industry
According to VITAS, Vietnam hosts gpproximgtely 3,50O foreign-invested textile and garment projects with ø
combined value of US$37 billion. These projects qre crucial for boosting the sector's production cơpgcity and
significantly enhancing the country's export turnover. Foreign-Invested enterprises play ơ vitol role in Vietnam's
textile and gơrment industry, contributing to Ó5 percent of the sector's totơl export revenue.
Mgơjor investors In this sector come primgrily from South Koreag,
FIND BUSINESS SUPPORT Taiwon, Hong Kong, and Chíing, with South Korea being the largest
Identify the Optimal Investment foreign Investor. The expønsion of EDI has agcceleroted the growth and
Destination with Cross Country Cơpdcity of the locdl textile and gorment sector. Vietngm, now the
Competitiveness Benchmarking — worlds third-largest textile and garment exporter, trails only Ching
ơand Bonglodesh.
Z%
'To stay competitive, especidlly as mơJor export mgrkets like the EU
ơand the U.S. impose higher environmentdl ønd sustoingbility
stơndgrds, Vietngm Is incregsingly pressured to Implermment sustaingbility proctices within Its garment and
textile sector. This cregtes huge potentidl for green Investrments—from ơdopting industry best prơgctices thøt
focus on the circularity of textile products ønd EPR protocols to Upgrgding key infrgstructure to gddress wgste
collection ønd treatment ơnd recycling.
Notơøble developments in Vietnam's textile and garment industry
Gơining ø competitive edge with high-vølue products
A recent survey by the US Fashion Industry Associdtion (USFIA) hơøs highlighted Vietnam's competitive edge
over Ching ønd Bơongladesh in producing high-value products, dttributed to investments in gdvanced
moơchinery ơnd skilled labor. Vietnamese firms ơre dơlso noted for their dbility to quickly produce ơ wide ronge
of products, thønks to their substantidl investrments in both technology and workforce expertise.
Germony supports Vietngm's pilot projects on green technology
On June 18, 2024, the Green Tech Londing Pod initigtive, supported by the Germon government, unveiled five
Pilot projects focused on green technology In Vietngm's textile and garment industry. The Germoơn Corporotion
for Interngtiongl Cooperdtion GmbH (GlZ) høs been colldborgting with the Ngtiongl Innovgtion Center (NIC)
ơnd Vietnam's Ministry of Planning and Investment to gdvonce this initidtive.
These pilot projects demonstrate ø strong commitment to sustoøingble prơctices gligned with Europeøn
moơrket stơndords. The technologies include loTeamVNTs energy møơnggement solution, Enedig Kfts cloud-
bosed løbor cost calculation tool trìmeSSD®, Hoøng Has woste hedt recovery system, ECOSOIS pinegpple-
bơsed fabrics ønd fibers, and BlockTexxs recycling solutions for polyester ønd cellulose.
Conclusion
Vietngm's textile and garment sector is globolly competitive, ds the country hạs become ơ prime bose for
businesses ơnd investors seeking gccess to high-vaglue morkets like the EU ønd U.S. Yet, severdl mơjor export
moơrkets haqve begun to prioritize lowering greenhouse gơs emissions and promoting extended producer
obligations to promote less wgste ơnd øơ more circular economy.
Vietngm's Incregsing commitment to ơ green transition in the textile ơnd garment sector is ø testarment to
these shifts towdrds sustơøingbility, which Is crucial for mơintoining Its globol øppeol.
About Us
Vietnơm Briefing is one of five regiongl publications under the Asig Briefing brond. It is supported by
Dezon Shirg & Associgtes, a pan-Asia, multi-disciplinary professiondl services firm thơt gssists foreign
investors throughout Asiog, including through offices in Hơnoi, Ho Chỉ Minh City, and Dø Nơng in
Vietnam. Dezon Shirg & Associdtes glso mơintgins offices or hơạs glliasnce portners gssisting foreign
investors in Ching, Hong Kong SAR, Indonesig, Singøpore, Mglgysig, Mongoliag, Dubơi (UAE), Jøpoøn,
South Koreog, Nepdl, The Philippines, Sri Lonkơ, Thơilơnd, Itgly, Germony, Banglodesh, Austrolia, United
Stơtes, and United Kingdom ơnd Ireland.
For ø complimentgry subscription to Vietnam Briefing's content products, plegse click here. For support
with estơblishing ø business in Vietnam or for gssistonce Iin ønglyzing ønd entering morkets, please
contgct the firm ơt vietngrn@dezshirg.com or visit us ơt www.dezshirog.com