Guidelines
for Greening the
Textile Sector in
Viet Nam
© Adam Oswell / WWF-Greater Mekong Table of Contents
About these Guidelines
2
Reading Guide for specific audience group
4
Preface
1
Part 1. Why Vietnam needs a green textile and garment sector
6
Section 1. Drivers of change
7
Section 2. Market requirements
9
Section 3. Vietnamese policies concerning the textile and garment sector
12
Part 2. Best Available Technologies and Best Environmental Practices
16
Section 1. What manufacturers are doing
17
Section 2. What brands are doing
20
Section 3. What other countries are doing
25
Part 3. Global Textile Sustainability Trends and Platforms
29
Section 1. Sustainable materials initiatives
30
Section 3. Product Eco Tags
39
33
Section 2. Textile manufacturing processes
Part 4. Sector Outlook and Guidelines for Green Transformation
42
Section 1. Sector Outlook for Green Transformation
43
Section 2. Green vision and goals for the Viet Nam textile sector to 2030
47
Section 3. Strategic workstreams toward green transformation
49
Section 4. Collective Action Plan
52
Annex 3. Best Available Technologies and Best Environmental Practices in the global
textile and garment sector
62
Annex 1. Production chain
60
Annex 2. Inputs and waste streams
61
CONCLUSIONS
59
Annex 4. Lessons learned from WWF textile projects in different countries
72
Glossary of Terms
77
Abbreviations
AOX
Adsorbable organic halogen
BATs
Best Available Technologies
BEPs
Best Environmental Practices
CMT
Cut, Make, Trim
CO2
Carbon dioxide
CPTPP
Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership
EVFTA
European Union - Vietnam Free Trade Agreement
FOB
Free on Board
GHG
Greenhouse gases
MOIT
Ministry of Industry and Trade
MONRE
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
PES
Polyester
RFT
Right-First-Time
SDG
Sustainable Development Goals
VINATEX
Viet Nam National Textile and Garment Group
VITAS
Viet Nam Textile and Apparel Association
WWF
World Wild Fund for Nature
1
Preface
L
ed by WWF Vietnam with cooperation from the Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association (VITAS), and with financial support from HSBC,
the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, and Tommy Hilfiger,
the Greening Textile Sector Project was launched in 2018 to transform
the textile sector in Vietnam and engage sectoral and environmental
governance to bring social, economic and conservation benefits to the
country and the entire Mekong region. The project focuses on improving
water and energy management with the long-term goal of enhancing
Mekong River's governance and improving the sustainability of Mekong
River ecosystems and habitats. The project also supports climate change
mitigation through increasing energy efficiency and the use of sustainable
energy. This handbook on guidelines for greening the sector is one of
the project’s main deliverables and serves as a resource document for
stakeholders interested in working towards a sustainable pathway to
secure long-term sector growth.
In recent years, the textile and garment industry has had the largest
export turnover and growth rate among Vietnam's export products. In
2019, export value reached 39 billion USD. The Prime Minister hoped that
the sector will maintain its position in the top 3 textile exporting countries
with the target of at least 30 Vietnamese fashion brands competing in the
world market by 2030, and to fully embed the principles of environmental
conservation in the sector development.
Given the significance of the sector in socioeconomic and environmental
aspects, WWF is striving to build a broad coalition of stakeholders
committed to creating a sustainable industry.
2
About
these
Guidelines
These guidelines are designed to be a basis for discussion among stakeholders
on actions that can be implemented in short to medium term for the sector
green transformation.
Part 1
Part 1 offers a rationale for greening the textile sector. The sector's momentum
for long-term development and changing market requirements driven by
multilateral trade agreements, buyers' sustainability targets, rising consumer
awareness and support for brands promoting sustainability. Examples have
also been provided for each case. The concluding section of Part 1 outlines
Vietnam’s policy framework, which is committed with global SDGs, climate
change mitigation and adaptation as well as green growth strategies, with
concerning issues related to textile sector.
Part 2
Part 2 presents examples of Best Available Technologies (BATs) and Best
Environmental Practices (BEPs) in Bangladesh, China, the European Union
and India, followed by actions implemented by leading brands (H&M, GAP,
Levi Strauss, and UNIQLO) and also shares two examples from manufacturers
in Vietnam.
3
Part 4
Part 4 presents an overview of practical actions that can be undertaken by
stakeholders to embed environmental sustainability in their operations.
Section 1 begins with a vision of what can be achieved followed by a
sector outlook and opportunities for green transformation and a ‘map’ of
stakeholders in the textile value chain. The stakeholder map helps to identify
their roles in greening Vietnam’s textile sector. Section 2 shares suggested
goals and targets for textile sector sustainability by 2030. Section 3 discusses
key workstreams toward green transformation. Section 4 is a draft action
plan for taking this agenda forward.
Part 3
Part 3 is about textile sustainability trends and platforms. In connection to
practical experiences demonstrated in Part 2, some most recognized tools
and certifications that address the sustainability improvement of textile
supply chain are introduced in this Part under 3 categories: (i) sustainable
materials promotion with GRS, BCI and Cradle-to-Cradle; (ii) Tools applied
in textile manufacturing process including Higg Index, Bluesign Approved,
GOTS, ISO 14001, Oeko-Tex; and (iii) Eco-tag for products, typically Bluesign
Product, EU Eco Label and Fair Trade.
4
If you are
Ministry official
•
Opportunities and existing obstacles to creating a circular economy
and gaps in policy and legislation (ref. to Part 1).
•
Setting standards, requirements and enforcement (ref. to Part 4).
Provincial authority
official
•
Industrial park design and sustainable operations that minimize
environmental and social impacts and improve resource efficiency
(ref. to Sec. 1, Part 2).
•
Local policy for attracting investment projects with green-oriented
designs (ref to Sec. 3, Part 1).
You may be interested in
Buyer or brand
representative
•
Getting and sharing information on techniques, trends, and support
(ref. to Part 3 & 4).
•
Public-private partnerships and networking (ref. to Part 3 & 4).
VITAS member
•
Networking with stakeholders in other sectors such as manufacturing
companies and investors, local authorities, and policy makers (ref. to
Part 3 and 4).
•
Sector strategy and policy recommendations and advocacy.
Factory owner/
operator
•
Recommended best practices and techniques to improve production
with win-win benefits (ref. to Annex 3).
•
Certifications, labels, and standards.
•
Legal documents related to sustainable development, including
incentives and green financing (ref. to Sec. 3, Part 1).
Reading Guide for specific audience group
5
If you are
Development
partner
•
Public-private partnerships and networking (ref. to Part 3 and
Annex 3 & 4).
•
Policy advocacy (ref. to Part 3 and Annex 3 & 4).
•
Information on Best Available Technologies, Best Environmental
Practices (ref. to Part 3 and Annex 3 & 4).
NGO, CSO or
concerned citizen
•
Eco-tag, eco-labels, fair trade, industry sustainability guidelines
(ref. to Part 3).
You may be interested in
HR professional
•
Training and human resource requirements (ref. to Annexes).
Technician or
engineer
•
Technical information, Best Available Technologies, Best
Environmental Practices (ref. to Annexes).
Investor or banker
•
Legal documents related to sustainable development, including
incentives for green investment (ref. to Part 1).
•
Information on Best Available Technologies, Best Environmental
Practices (ref. to Part 3 and Annex 3).
6
Part 1.
Why Vietnam needs
a green textile and
garment sector
© WWF-Viet Nam / Nguyen Ngoc Quang
7
Section 1. Drivers of change
T
he global textile industry was estimated
to be worth USD 920 billion in 2018 and
forecast to reach approximately USD 1,230
billion by 2024. Vietnam's textile and garment
industry comprises nearly 15% of the country's
total export turnover. Between 2005–2017,
Vietnam’s market share increased from 1.7%
to 2.5%, making it one of the five largest
textile exporters in the world. In Vietnam,
the sector currently employs over 2.5 million
people, accounting for approximately 20% of
the national industrial workforce1. While the
industry has significant economic benefits, the
production of textiles and garments is resource
intensive and a major source of pollution.
Textile production and cotton farming globally
use around 93 billion cubic meters of water
annually. This is 4% of all the freshwater
withdrawals worldwide. In addition, 20% of
industrial
water
pollution
globally
comes
from dyeing and textile treatments. Textile
manufacturing also uses a lot of energy to
operate
machinery,
heating
and
cooling,
and to produce heat and steam for material
processing. Textile production emitted a total
of 3.3 Gt of CO2 equivalent, or 6.7% of global
emissions in 2016.
The global Covid-19 pandemic has been causing
tremendous social and economic turbulence. The
apparel industry has experienced an immediate
drop in global sales. A global consumer survey
by McKinsey in April 20202 indicated that as an
immediate response, 60% consumers cut down
fashion spending during and after the pandemic;
while in long run, 65% will shift from fast to
low enduring fashion and 67% care about the
environmental and social sustainability of fashion
brands. Consumer’s pressure is a key driver for
fashion brands to commit and act for improving
sustainability throughout their supply chain.
‘Greening’
the
textile
sector
means
working
toward improving resource efficiency, reducing
waste discharge, phasing out microfiber release,
transforming
the
way
clothes
are
designed,
produced, sold and used to break free from their
increasingly disposable nature, improving recycling
by transforming clothing design, collection, and
reprocessing, and moving to renewable inputs.
Greening the sector is not just about technology.
Long-term, sustainable growth of the sector means
taking into account environmental, economic and
social factors, as depicted in Figure 1. Actions taken
to green the textile sector will make a significant
contribution to Vietnam’s commitments to meeting
many of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
1 Book "Ngành công nghiệp Dệt May Việt Nam với cuộc CMCN lần thứ 4”, VINATEX, July 2020
2 https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/retail/our-insights/survey-consumer-sentiment-on-sustainability-in-fashion
8
Long-term, sustainable growth of the textile and garment sector depends on
ENVIRONMENTAL
FACTORS
•
Impacts of climate
change may interrupt
energy, water, and
major material supplies.
•
The government
has pledged to
meet international
commitments on
cutting greenhouse gas
emissions and achieving
UN Sustainable
Development Goals.
•
Greening the textile and
garment sector lowers
local resistance to new
factories or textile-
specialized industrial
zones by reducing
freshwater withdrawal
and wastewater
discharge
SOCIAL FACTORS
•
Community's and
consumers' awareness
and concerns about
environment issues are
increasing.
•
Social and environmentally
responsible policies plus
better working conditions
will attract and help
retaining smart young
workers.
•
Consumers will pay a
premium for socially
responsible goods.
•
Big brands disclose
more information
on sustainability and
consider it a way of
enhancing corporate
reputation to attract
customers and expand
their market shares.
•
Low labour cost is no
longer a competitive
advantage for
Vietnamese industries.
•
Being a sustainable
supplier is a selling point.
•
Buyers demands for
sustainability are
increasing. Sustainable
materials production
is crucial to take full
advantage of FTA trade
preferences.
•
Green textile producers
will get stable orders at
reasonable prices.
•
Proactively applying
BATs and BEPs helps
producers:
- save production costs
due to reduced energy,
water, chemical use, and
- reduce costs for
compliance on
environmental criteria
and avoid the risk of
license removal due to
failure to comply with
regulations.
ECONOMIC
FACTORS
Figure 1. Three perspectives for securing long-term sustainable growth in the textile and garment sector.
9
Multilateral Trade Agreements
Vietnam currently participates in 16 Free Trade Agreements (FTAs).
FTAs offer favorable conditions for enterprises to expand their export
markets. Certified corresponding origins, sustainable production, and
transparency of production information are preconditions of tax relief
for Vietnamese goods. Meanwhile, Vietnam is obliged to open its markets
to high quality and diverse products from FTA partner countries and is
gradually pressured to demonstrate fair and equal competitiveness or
risk losing its domestic market to foreign products and companies. To
take full advantage of FTA trade, businesses need to innovate all aspects
of their operations.
To illustrate, here are some of the implications under the Comprehensive
and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). In
Chapter 20 (para 6), “the Parties recognize that it is inappropriate to
encourage trade or investment by weakening or reducing the protection
afforded in their respective environmental laws.” There are further
obligations to protect the ozone layer and marine environments. Lest
industry or government think they can shirk these obligations, Article
20.11: Voluntary Mechanisms to Enhance Environmental Performance
stipulates that, “The Parties recognize that flexible, voluntary mechanisms,
for example, voluntary auditing and reporting, market-based incentives,
voluntary sharing of information and expertise, and public-private
partnerships, can contribute to the achievement and maintenance of
high levels of environmental protection and complement domestic
regulatory measures. The Parties also recognize that those mechanisms
should be designed in a manner that maximizes their environmental
benefits and avoids the creation of unnecessary barriers to trade.”
"The bottom
line is, greening
the textile and
garment sector is
not just ‘good for
the environment’,
it has tangible
monetary benefits
for everyone
involved."
Section 2. Market requirements
10
Stricter buyer requirements
Increasing consumer awareness
Buyers,
especially
those
representing
major
brands and international chains, are restructuring
their global supply chains to meet their strict
sustainability
targets.
These
requirements
emphasize environmental performance, use of
recycled materials, sourcing organic or sustainable
raw materials, reducing energy consumption, and
conservation of non-renewable resources such as
water and fossil fuels.
A growing number of consumers are willing to pay more for sustainable textiles and clothing products
and their increasing awareness on sustainable consumption for environmental protection is creating
pressure on the sector to innovate and move towards green production.
Companies are learning that consumer confidence in a company can be enhanced by increasing the
transparency of their production and operation processes.
Levi Strauss &
Co., Ltd.’s
Sustainability
Guidebook
35 Ethical & Sustainable Clothing
Brands Betting Against Fast Fashion
Global fashion chains are launching
organic collections and fairtrade products
and international trading companies have
established corporate sustainability strategies
for their supply chains to manage the
consumption of natural resources.
© goodtrade.com
11
A new textiles economy:
Fashion’s Future
The Ellen Macarthur Foundation shows how
the textile system operates through the use of
large amounts of non-renewable resources to
produce clothes “that are often used for only
a short time, after which the materials are
mostly sent to landfills or incinerated.”3
Fixing Fashion: Clothing consumption
and sustainability
Author: Environmental Audit Committee
Contents:
•
The environmental cost of our clothes
•
The social cost of our clothes
•
Textile waste and collection
•
New economic models for the fashion industry
•
Conclusions and recommendations In the UK, the Environmental Audit Committee under the
House of Commons recommended the fashion industry
trace the source of raw materials in garments to address
social and environmental abuses in their supply chains.4
3 The Ellen Macarthur Foundation, New Textiles Economy: Redesigning Fashion’s Future, 2017
4 House of Commons, Environmental Audit Committee; FIXING FASHION: clothing consumption and sustainability; 19 February 2019
12
Section 3. Vietnamese Policies Concerning the Textile and Garment Sector
The existing legislation documents of Vietnam, which address directly the sector or general manufacturing
industries is structured at different levels. The table below gives an overview of the existing legal doctrine
legislating Viet Nam’s textile industry.
Most concerned
stages in the
supply chain
Implications
Document
Nr.
General Strategies
All stages
2
Decree, 155/2016/ND-CP, Penalties
for administrative violations against
regulations on environmental protection
Requirements and legal
compliance for factories
All stages
3
Decision, 622/QĐ-TTg 10/5/2017,
National Action Plan for the
Implementation of the 2030
Sustainable Development Agenda
Orientations for both
investors and factories to
move towards green production
All stages
4
Decision, 76/QD-TTg 11/1/2016, The
National Action Plan on Sustainable
Production and Consumption up to
2020, with a vision to 2030
Tasks and orientations for
both investors and factories to
move towards green production
All stages
5
Decision, 1393/QD-TTg (25/9/2012),
National Strategy on Green Growth
during the period 2011-2020, with a
vision toward 2050
Tasks and orientations for
both investors and factories to
move towards green production
Law, 55/2014/QH13,
Environmental Protection
Requirements for both
investors and factories
All stages
1
Resolution, 24-NQ/TW (03/6/2013),
Proactive response to climate change,
strengthening natural resources
management and environmental protection
Orientations for both investors
and factories to move towards
green production
All stages
6
13
Most concerned
stages in the
supply chain
Implications
Document
Nr.
Energy Efficiency
Decision, 280/QD-TTg 13/3/2019,
Action Approval of the National Energy
Efficiency Programme (VNEEP) for the
period of 2019 -2030
Sector objectives for reducing the
average energy consumption
(minimum 5.00% by 2025 and
6.80% by 2030)
All stages
7
Decision, 2053/QD-TTg 28/10/2016,
Action Plan to Implement the Paris
Agreement on Climate Change
Tasks and orientations for
both investors and factories to
move towards green production
All stages
8
Decision No.2359/QD-TTg dated
22/12/2015 of Prime Minister on the
National GHG Inventory
Annual energy consumption
inventory to be carried out by
the manufacturer
All stages
9
Decree 21/2011/ND-CP (March 29,
2011) Detailing the Law on Economical
and Efficient Use of Energy for industries
Requirements and
instructions for factories
All stages
11
Law, 50/2010/QH12, Economical and
Efficient Use of Energy
Requirements for both
investors and factories
Wet processing
10
Industrial and Industrial park Development
Decree, 82/2018/ND-CP, Management of
Industrial Parks and Economic Zones
Instructions and incentives for
both investors and factories to
move towards green production
All stages
12
Decision, 68/QD-TTg (18/1/2017),
Development programme for supporting
industries in the 2016-2025 period
Orientations for both
investors and factories
Fiber, yarn and
fabric production
and wet processing
13
Decision, 1513/QD-TTg (3/9/3015),
Promote Vietnamese enterprises’ direct
participation in foreign distribution systems
period to 2020
Orientations for both
investors and factories
All stages
14
14
Most concerned
stages in the
supply chain
Implications
Document
Nr.
Industrial and Industrial park Development
Decision, 3218/QD-BCT (11/4/2014),
master plan for Vietnam textile industrial
development by 2020, with a vision to 2030
Tasks and orientations for
both investors and factories
All stages
15
Resolution, 23-NQ/TW (22/3/2018),
Orientation to develop national industrial
development policies to 2030, with a vision
to 2045
Orientations for both investors
and factories
All stages
17
Circular, 35/2015/TT-BTNMT, providing for
the environmental protection of economic
zones industrial parks
Industrial zone developer
Textile-centralized
Industrial zone
18
Decree, 111/2015/ND-CP, development of
supporting industries
Orientations and policies
incentives for both investors
and factories
All stages
16
Water exploitation, usage and management
Decree, 201/2013/ND-CP, Detailing
the implementation of a number of
Articles of the Law on Water Resources
Requirements for factories
Wet processing
19
Circular, 27/2014/TT-BTNMT,
Registration of groundwater extraction
Requirements for factories
exploiting groundwater
Wet processing
20
Decree, 54/2015/ND-CP,
Regulating privileges for water saving
and efficient practices
Orientations and privileges to
both investors, factories and
industrial zone developers
All stages
21
Decree, 40/2019/NĐ-CP,
Amendments to Decrees on guidelines for
the Law on Environment Protection
Factories and industrial zone
developer
Wet processing
23
Decree, 167/2018/ND-CP,
Limitation of groundwater extraction
Factories and industrial
zones exploiting groundwater
All stages
22
15
Most concerned
stages in the
supply chain
Implications
Document
Nr.
Chemicals usage and management
Decree, 113/2017/ND-CP, specifying and
providing guidelines for  implementation of
certain articles of the Law on Chemicals
Requirements and
instruction for factories
Wet processing
25
Circular, 21/2017/TT-BCT, promulgation
of National technical regulation on the
content of formaldehyde in textile products
Requirements for factories
All stages
26
Law, 06/2007/QH12, Chemicals
Requirements for both
investors and factories
Wet processing
24
Waste Management
Decree, 38/2015/ND-CP,
Management of waste and discarded
materials
Requirements and
instructions for factories
All stages
27
Decree, 80/2014/ND-CP, the drainage and
treatment of wastewater
Requirements and
instructions for factories and
industrial zones
All stages
28
National technical regulation, QCVN
13-MT:2015/BTNMT (01/12/2014),
Effluent of textile industry
Requirements for factories
Wet processing
29
National Technical Regulation, QCVN
40:2011/BTNMT, Industrial Wastewater
Requirements for factories
Wet processing
30
It can be seen that, besides the legal requirements on environmental performance, to which manufacturing
companies in the sector must comply, such as Laws and corresponding regulating documents, there have
been some other legal documents providing instructions, orientations and incentives that support the
sector starting its green transformation.
16
Part 2.
Best Available Technologies and
Best Environmental Practices
© Shutterstock / foxbat / WWF
17
Section 1. What manufacturers are doing
Correctly applied, BATs and BEPs are a win-
win from economic and environmental aspects
through savings in production and compliance
costs, help secure long-term clients and orders,
improve the company’s image and build trust
in the community, and contribute to a cleaner
environment.
A global compilation of BATs and BEPs is presented
in Annex 3. Especially, practical BATs and BEPs
experiences withdrawn from WWF’s project in India,
Turkey, China and Hong Kong, Viet Nam and Pakistan
are summarized in Annex 4.
Crystal Martin Vietnam Company Ltd.
Crystal Martin was established in 2004
as the Intimate Apparel Division of Crystal
International Group Limited specializing
in lingerie and swimwear products. In
Vietnam, the company has over  10,000
employees and a site area of 132,967 square
meters. Lean manufacturing  is applied to
production lines to optimize the efficiency.
As part of Crystal International Group
Limited,
the
company
complies
with
the
Group’s
sustainability
vision
and
Built in 2019, Crystal Martin's rooftop solar energy
system consisting of 1,800 PV panels is expected to save
about 550,000 kWh and reduce factory emissions by
approximately 500 tCO2e a year. (Sustainability Report
2019 by Crystal International Group Limited).
approach. The factory has adopted the Higg
Facility Environmental Module and attained a
self-assessment score higher than the industry
median (see the section on textile manufacturing
processes below for an explanation of Higg
Index). Energy patterns and energy load control
are closely monitored by the group’s Real Time
Energy Management System platform. The
system helps the company analyze trends and
abnormalities in energy use so it can identify
opportunities to improve energy efficiency
based on objective data and analysis.
© Crystal Martin
18
Saitex International Co., Ltd.
A sustainable denim manufacturer, Saitex
International has a production capacity of
16,000 pieces/day at five locations in Vietnam.
Employing a workforce of 3,000 people, the
company is specialized in denim products of
all types such as jeans, shorts, jackets, skirts,
dresses, and jumpsuits. Its products bear tags
of more than 15 brands including G-Star Raw,
Ralph Lauren, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger,
and GAP.
Saitex began in 2005 as a denim-producing factory
with conventional facilities but moved towards
sustainable manufacturing in 2010. Sanjeev Bahl,
the CEO and founder, has said, “Sustainability is
everyone’s sons and daughters. It’s the future we
promised them and forgot to keep along the way
to creating the advanced world they are going to
live in.”. As a member of the Sustainable Apparel
Coalition since 2012, Saitex has Higg Index verified
for 4 years continuously (see table below).
Year
Scored out of 100
Verifier
2016
83
Elevate
2017
83
Elevate
2018
85
Bureau Veritas
2019
90
Bureau Veritas
Spraying
robot
Biomass
fuel
Air drying
Solar
panels
Ozone
Bleaching
Laser
cutting
© Saitex International
19
Saitex maintains a management system
for sustainable certifications such as ISO
14000, Cradle-to-Cradle, bluesign, GRS,
Oeko-Tex, GOTS, LEED, and B-Corp.
Saitex
applies
innovative
technologies
including laser cutting, E-flow, sanding
robots, spraying robots, ozone bleaching,
and auto dosing.
The company reports on wastewater and
non-hazardous sludge against the ZDHC
Wastewater Standards5 twice a year.
By using renewable energy from solar and
biomass, air-drying systems, green buildings,
planting trees, and alternative transportation,
Saitex has reduced its energy consumption by
13 million kWh/year. By applying a closed water system and jet
washing, the company is able to save 252 million
liters per year. This results in only 1.5 liters of
water consumption per pair of jeans at Saitex,
compared to the industry standard of 80 liters.
5 ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines https://www.roadmaptozero.com/post/zdhc-releases-wastewater-guidelines
20
Section 2. What brands are doing
Major brands are:
Some examples on brand-leveled case studies in greening textile and
fashion operations are indicated below.
Increasing the use of
sustainable cotton and
jointly supporting cotton
farmers through the
Better Cotton Initiative.
Reducing CO2
emissions from their
entire supply chains.
Promoting the use
of recycled materials
in fashion, such as
polyester, glass, metals,
and waste cotton.
Innovating design and
production technology
to reduce water use.
Taking used products as
inputs to creating new styles
and for use in recycling.
Reducing single-use plastic
in their stores.
Giving customers tips
on how to best preserve
their clothing.
21
H&M
S
ince 2010, H&M has been promoting its
Conscious Exclusive style to promote the
use of recycled materials, such as recycled
polyester, recycled glass, recycled zinc and
brass mix, using TENCELTM X REFIBRATM
lyocell fabrics, which is partly made from
waste cotton. Their sustainability report
says that 57% of all materials used by
H&M are recycled or derived from other
sustainably
sourced
materials.
20,649
tons of textiles were reused or recycled in
2018 through H&M’s garment collecting
initiative. This represented 16% more than
what achieved in 2017 and is equivalent of
103 million T-shirts.
Conscious Exclusive SS20: A journey towards circularity
The brand focuses on the reduction of CO2
emission from its operation with 11% reduced in
2018. This is an important step in the pathway to
achieving a climate positive value chain by 2040.
Regarding sourcing sustainable cotton, H&M
ranked top three in Sustainable Cotton Ranking
2020. Every year, H&M gradually increases its
sourcing of organic and recycled cotton, as well as
cotton through the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)6.
In 2020, H&M achieved 100% BCI, organic and
recycled cotton. By 2030, all materials used in all
products will be certified sustainable, organic or
recycled.
6 Better Cotton Initiative https://bettercotton.org/
© H&M
22
7 https://www.gapincsustainability.com/environment/protecting-our-shared-environment
GAP
GAP Inc.7 prioritize its greatest opportunities
for leadership to maximize impact on 8
core focus areas: Water, Climate, Waste,
Raw
Materials,
Product
Sustainability,
Employees,
Communities
and
Supply
Chain.
Applying product life cycle thinking, GAP
Inc. addresses environmental issues by
minimizing the impacts of both direct
operations and broader supply chain
through the following actions:
Improving manufacturing at mills and
laundries: Together with the suppliers,
GAP Inc. achieved its 2020 goal to reduce
water use in manufacturing by 10 billion
liters.
Doing its part on climate and waste:
GAP Inc. established its first science-based
targets to reduce GHG emissions in its own
operations and supply chains by 2030 and
commit to being carbon neutral across the
value chain by 2050. The commitment was to
divert 80% of waste from landfill for its U.S.
operations by the end of 2020 and eliminate
single-use plastics by 2030.
Creating solutions for women and water: The
water strategy is focused on the intersection
between GAP industry’s significant use of water
and the basic right people have to clean, safe
water.
Enhancing the product sustainability: GAP Inc.’s
integrated commitment to sustainability begins
with its design teams and the development of
products that look good, have a lower impact
on the environment and bring confidence to
customers. To scale up the work, GAP Inc. also
leverage partnerships with organizations such
as the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, Textile
Exchange, Hong Kong Resource Institute of
Textiles and Apparel and the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation’s Make Fashion Circular initiative,
among many others.
23
Levi Strauss & Co.
Levi Strauss & Co. uses a life cycle
assessment (LCA)8 framework to strategize
their sustainability efforts.
Design:
They
launched
Water<Less®
products in 2011 to shift how decisions
are made in the design process and help
reduce the amount of water used in the
finishing process. Some 67% of Levi’s are
made Water<Less and that will increase to
80 percent by 2020. Wellthread products in
2015 address sustainability at every step of
the supply chain.
Sourcing: Levi’s works with BCI and other
partners to help farmers grow cotton more
sustainably, reducing water and chemical
use and increasing yields and committed to
using 100 percent more sustainable cotton
from BCI growers, organic cotton farms,
or recycled cotton suppliers by the end of
2020.
Make:
The
brand
is
making
a
Climate
Commitment
to
reduce
greenhouse
gas
emissions by 90 percent in their owned and
operated facilities and 40 percent in their entire
supply chain by 2025. They also have many
partnerships and programs such as the 2025
Water Action Strategy.
Use and re-use: The company is increasingly
designing products that are suitable for true
circularity – with 100% recyclable materials
– from the outset. The ‘Our Planet’ care
tag provides tips on how to best preserve
customers’ clothing. The brand works with
different organizations in different countries to
collect used clothing. Levi’s® Authorized Vintage
is a product range with an authentic, everlasting
vintage pre-owned or restored items on the
market.
24
UNIQLO
The
UNIQLO8
mission
statement
is
"Unlocking the Power of Clothing", which
means using ethically sourced materials
to minimize environmental impacts. The
company has a ‘putting workers first’
policy and develops new materials and
technologies with better futures in mind.
Promote a clothing’s second life: Through
its Recycling Program, UNIQLO maximizes
the use of clothing by providing recycling
boxes at its stores. As of end of August
2019, 90.79 million items were collected
from 22 countries and regions and 36.57
million items were donated to 72 countries
and regions.
UNIQLO applies new technology for jeans
production such as laser processing and
nano-bubble ozone washing machines. Water
in production is reduced by up to 99%. The
technologies were applied for the entire line
of UNIQLO jeans by end of 2020. Other new
technologies like washing with eco-stones and
distressing jeans with laser technology are
being applied.
Reduce single-use plastic in its stores (initiated
in September 2019). UNIQLO planned to reduce
the amount of single-use plastics, such as
shopping bags and product packaging at its
stores worldwide by 85%, or around 7,800 tons
annually by the end of 2020.
8 https://www.uniqlo.com/
25
Section 3. What other countries are doing
Bangladesh
At country level, a number of management practices and policies have been applied and enforced by
top five textile exporter countries.
T
extile industry of Bangladesh is more
than 500 years old and is the largest
manufacturing sector of the country. The
growth is expected with an ambitious
export target of USD 50 billion in 2021 and
USD 66.25 billion by 20309.
Bangladesh has concentrated on extending
the value chain through stimulating R&D,
•
Applying green technology to energy use,
re-use of wastewater, green chemistry,
green buildings, and green nanotechnology.
•
Innovative
applications
of
information
technology.
•
Promoting the application and certification
of LEED (US Green Building Council) for all
industries in Bangladesh to promote green
buildings, safe workplaces and reduce the
cost of doing business.
•
Strengthening
labor
inspections
and
enhancing occupational health and safety.
•
Promoting innovative design methods.
•
Differentiating green and non-green textile
industries to showcase economic and
environmental benefits to producers.
LEED Platinum certified denim industry Vintage
Denim Studio ltd, a sister concern of ABA Group.
- Bangladesh leading the world in sustainable
green industrialization.
improving logistics, and producing labels for
ready-made garments. The green technology10
approach looks at energy strategies and non-
toxic clean products. Some main points of the
transition for greening the industry have been:
9 Water governance mapping report: Textile industry water use in Bangladesh - Phillia Restiani
10 The Significance of Green Technology in the Textile Industries of Bangladesh, Paper ID: IE-181, International Conference on Mechanical,
Industrial and Materials Engineering 2017 (ICMIME2017) 28-30 December, 2017, RUET, Rajshahi, Bangladesh
© Vintage Denime Studio Ltd
26
China
T
he textile industry has long been a pillar
of China’s economy. The sector’s trade
volume has increased by 27 times during the
past 25 years.11 As the largest textile exporter,
China is facing severe challenges relating to
environmental constraints, such as the inefficient
use of resources, high energy consumption and
serious pollution.
The Government of China suggested these
policies to put its textile industry on a sustainable
footing.
Construct textile industrial zones. During 17
years of development, textile-specialized clusters
increased from 38 pilot districts and towns to
185 cities by the end of 2016. The clusters now
account for more than 80% of China's total
textile production.
Create policy to eliminate businesses using old,
inefficient technology that consumes energy
and discharges large amounts of waste. The 13th
China 5-Year Textile Development Plan emphasized
innovation,
coordination,
greening,
openness,
sharing, and collective action to improve quality and
efficiency, reform the supply chain structure and
focus on diversity to take the industry to new heights
with new power.
The Plan Made in China 2025 and the Production Plan
of the Chinese Clothing Factory until 2020 set goals
to reduce the use of energy and water resources
per product unit by 18% and 20% of industrial value
added, while also cutting the amount of polluted
wastes by 10%. Furthermore, China's environmental
tax law since 2016 set increasingly high taxes on air,
water, and noise pollution.12
Improve industrial competitive advantage through
human resource strategies and innovation in
science
and
technology.
Technical
innovation
capability is the soul of enterprise development and
the basis of competitive advantage. For large firms
and groups of firms, it is necessary to establish R&D
centers. Equally, it is imperative to launch strategies
for human resource management and establish
an administrative mechanism for human resource
training.
Achieve more sustainability within the supply chain
and take steps towards a full circular production cycle.
11 China’s Textile Industry International Competitive Advantage and Policy Suggestion, YUAN, Tao & XU, Fu
12 Book "Ngành công nghiệp Dệt May Việt Nam với cuộc CMCN lần thứ 4”, VINATEX, July 2020
© Justin Jin / WWF-US
27
European Union
T
he clothing industry in 2018 realized
a turnover of almost € 80 billion, with
exports reaching almost € 27 billion13. The
European clothing industry is the second
biggest exporter after China, with 29% of the
global market. There is widespread concern
in Europe about environmental issues and a
general belief in the value of more sustainable
lifestyles.
The number of sustainable brands is growing
and the leading labels and retailers are
expanding their portfolios with clothing made
with sustainable, fair trade materials. Much of
the impact on sustainability happens during
the use and disposal phases of a product’s life
cycle. With this in mind, the European apparel
industry has been educating consumers on
how their own habits can make a difference.
“Buy better, buy less” is the current sentiment.
In 2012, Germany established a Task Force on
Industry 4.0 with aims at i) standardization, ii)
provide comprehensive broadband infrastructure
to industries, iii) mechanisms and solutions to
ensure information security and safety, iv) training,
professional development, and resource efficiency.
A model smart factory at the Textile Research
Center 4.0 of the Textile Institute at RWTH Aachen
University was built to serve as simulation center
for smart textile factories and a facility for testing,
piloting, and expanding new digital solution.
In 2014, the European Commission announced a
Circular Economy Package, in which re-use, repair,
and recycle is the new norm. Discarded used
apparel from Europe is currently sorted to three
routes, i) what is wearable gets sold to countries in
Africa and, to a lesser extent, in Eastern Europe; ii)
some waste is shredded to be used as insulation
materials for the automotive industry; and iii) the
remainder goes to landfills.
The European Green Deal14 is one out of six priorities
set by the European Commission for the period
2019 – 2024. It is Europe’s new growth strategy
towards being the first climate-neutral continent
in the world by 2050. The European Green Deal
provides an action plan, which focuses in particular
on resource-intensive sectors such as textiles,
construction, electronics and plastics to boost the
efficient use of resources by moving to a clean and
circular economy and to restore biodiversity and cut
pollution.
Textile Research Center 4.0 of the Textile
Institute at RWTH Aachen University in Aachen,
Germany.
13 http://www.s4tclfblueprint.eu/project/tclf-sectors/european-clothing-industry/
14 https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en
© RWTH Aachen
University
28
India
T
he Indian textile industry is a global top-
five producer and exporter with a large raw
material base and manufacturing strengths
across the value chain. The industry has a
significant place in the national economy with
regards to employment, income generation
and export earnings and contributes about
14% to industrial production and about 4% to
the GDP.
Tirupur is an important knitted ready-made
garment manufacturing cluster contributing
to more than 70% of India’s knitwear exports.15
At present, the cluster has an export turnover
of USD 353.2 million and domestic turnover of
USD 271.7 million, providing employment to
600,000 people directly and 200,000 people
indirectly.
Despite environmental legislation first enacted
in the early 1970s, abating and controlling
Tiruppur effluent treatment plant
pollution has been limited due to poor monitoring
and enforcement of environmental laws by the
Pollution Control Boards and a preponderance of
small-scale units that lack technical, financial, and
managerial capabilities to treat their effluents.
The change that India made for greening the textile
production in Tiruppur included following actions:
•
Installed common effluent treatment plants
to treat the effluent from dyeing units. By
1999, eight common effluent treatment plants
serving 278 units were operating in Tiruppur,
and 424 units had set up independent effluent
treatment plants.
•
In 2005, the Court directed to immediately
close all the Tiruppur units and common
effluent treatment plants that had not taken
steps to establish reverse osmosis plants.
•
Today, Tiruppur has 700 dyeing houses16
of which 100 are equipped with individual
effluent treatment plants. The remaining
units have collectively invested in common
effluent treatment plants. Tiruppur now has
18 common effluent treatment plants with a
collective total installed treatment capacity of
97.9 million liters per day.
•
Zero Liquid Discharge is the norm for textile
effluent treatement. Consequently, actors
with a stake in promoting Tiruppur’s green
production claimed that 'zero' discharge was
being achieved, though some non-compliance
still happen.
15,16 http://www.tirupurknitwears.com/profile/
© WWF-India
29
Part 3.
Global Textile Sustainability
Trends and Platforms
Major global brands are adopting environmental certifications
for their final products and materials and insisting their suppliers
align with their policies and obtain the relevant certifications.
Global certification schemes are driving good practices and
standards that minimize environmental impacts of business and
manufacturing processes.
© WWF-Viet Nam / Nguyen Ngoc Quang
30
Section 1. Sustainable materials initiatives
Greening the textile sector begins with sustainable production of raw materials. In this section,
readers will learn about some of the major initiatives in place.
Global Recycled Standard (GRS)
Global Recycled Standard (GRS)17 is a product standard for tracking
and verifying the content of recycled materials in a final product,
while ensuring strict production requirements. This standard
applies to all companies that manufacture or trade GRS products.
It covers processing, manufacturing, packaging, labelling, trading,
and distribution of all products that are made with a minimum of
20% recycled material.
The GRS is an international, voluntary, full product standard that
sets requirements for third party certification for:
•
Identification and traceability of the recycled content in textiles
along the entire chain of custody.
•
Environmental requirements to avoid degradation by ensuring
the use of recycled materials.
•
The chemical restrictions ensure no hazardous chemicals are
used that can adversely affect the environment or the health
of the user.
•
Social responsibilities according to International Labour
Organisation conventions.
17 Global Recycled Standards https://textileexchange.org/standards/recycled-claim-standard-global-recycled-standard/
31
Better Cotton Initiatives (BCI)
The Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)18 is a global not-for-profit
organization and the largest cotton sustainability program in the
world. BCI exists to make global cotton production better for the
people who produce it, better for the environment it grows in, and
better for the sector’s future. BCI aims to promote measurable
improvements in cotton cultivation to make it more economically,
environmentally, and socially sustainable. BCI activities include:
•
Formulating production principles and criteria to provide
a global definition of Better Cotton. At cotton farm level, the
BCI principles embrace water efficiency, reduction of pesticide
toxicity and energy use, soil health and carbon improvement,
•
Providing support to farmers to promote enabling mechanisms
from local to global levels, working with experienced
implementing
partners,
and
stimulating
public-private
partnership funds to implement these mechanisms.
•
Encouraging farmers to continuously improve, through
measuring results and seasonal learning cycles.
•
Connecting supply with demand through an identifiable bale of
100% Better Cotton lint.
•
Monitoring, evaluation, and learning mechanisms to measure
progress and change and to ensure the Better Cotton System
has the intended impacts on its direct beneficiaries.
•
Facilitating the exchange of best practices and knowledge to
encourage the scaling up of collective action.
18 Better Cotton Initiative https://bettercotton.org/
32
Cradle-to-Cradle (C2C)
The C2C19 philosophy is to redesign and
reshape the traditional product design
and manufacturing system into a closed
system in which all materials go through a
continuous cycle of use and re-use.
To achieve C2C certification, products are
assessed for continual improvement of
environmental and social performance
against
five
sustainability
criteria:
sustainable
materials;
reusing
raw
materials, renewable energy, carbon and
water management, and social fairness.
The C2C certificates are awarded based
on an increasing level of performance and
requires recertification every two years.
The certification method includes following
steps:
•
Selects an Accredited Assessment Body
for the testing, analysis, and evaluation
of your product.
•
Works with your assessor to compile and
evaluate data and documentation.
•
Receives certification and get your products
posted on the product registry of C2C
Product Innovation Institute.
•
Updates
your
customers
about
your
certification.
•
Reports your progress every two years for
recertification.
C2C is more than a recognized mark of product
quality. Signed up for C2C means that the
company is:
•
Joining
a
community
of
innovative
enterprises that make certified quality
products
and
provide
social
and
environmental benefits in the circular
economy.
•
Being able to use the C2C trademarks
to indicate commitments to continuous
improvement and quality statement.
•
Becoming a ‘product of choice’ for numerous
preferred
environmental
purchasing
programs.
19 Cradle-to-Cradle certification https://www.c2ccertified.org/
33
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC)
The ZDHC Roadmap to Zero Programme20 was initiated in 2011 to
“protect the planet” by reducing industry's chemical footprint along
their supply chains. ZDHC assesses the severity of hazards resulting
from the use of chemicals, identifies hazards, develops methods and
tools, builds awareness and educates all the actors in the entire supply
chain on the responsible handling and management of chemicals and
how to replace hazardous chemicals with safer alternatives.
There are two modules in the ZDHC approach. For textile producers,
the chemical module serves as an advance search tool for appropriate
chemicals and chemical management practices. The wastewater
module goes beyond legislative compliance to ensure wastewater
discharge does not negatively affect the environment and the
surrounding community.
Suppliers are assessed against uniform standards like the ZDHC
Wastewater Guidelines. They can then test wastewater once and
share the results simultaneously with all their clients. There were 86
provisional ZDHC Accepted Laboratories in the world by the end of
2019. Brands also benefit. They can see test results from multiple
suppliers on a single platform, the ZDHC Gateway Wastewater
Module.21
20 ZDHC Roadmap to Zero Programme https://www.roadmaptozero.com/
21 ZDHC Gateway Wastewater Module https://academy.roadmaptozero.com/fileadmin/zdhc/gateway/Wastewater_Module_Demonstration__Suppliers__
Brands_Labs__Oct_2019.pdf
Section 2. Textile manufacturing processes
There are numerous mechanisms and tools to help manufacturing companies improve their environmental
performance and continuously ‘go greener’. Some of the more common ones are described below.
34
Higg Index
The Higg Index22 is a suite of sustainability self-assessment tools
developed by the Sustainable Apparel Coalition to assess the
manufacturing, branding, and product impacts of textile production.
To achieve a Higg index certification, an enterprise needs to apply the
following Higg Tools:
•
Higg Product Tools help brands, retailers, manufacturers, and
academics understand the environmental impacts of apparel,
footwear, and textiles. There are two Higg Product Tools: the Higg
Materials Sustainability Index and the Higg Product Module.
•
Higg Facility Tools measure environmental and social sustainability
impacts in manufacturing facilities around the world. There are
two Higg Facility Tools: Higg Facility Environmental Module, and
Higg Facility Social & Labor Module.
•
Higg Brand and Retail Tool: Global brands and retailers use the tool
to assess the sustainability of product lifecycles, the environmental
performance, and social impacts across the value chain.
The Higg Index enables and encourages brands, retailers, and
manufacturers to become more transparent by communicating clear,
trustworthy, and meaningful sustainability information publicly. The
Higg Index can create business value for an enterprise by:
• Focusing on the enterprises’ sustainability strategy.
• Identifying opportunities to drive innovation while cutting costs
and wastes.
• Avoiding time and cost by do-it-yourself approaches.
• Reducing data sharing time, cost and complexity.
• Driving improvement through industry benchmarking.
• Optimizing sourcing efficiency.
• Supporting stakeholder communications.
22 Higg Index website: https://apparelcoalition.org/the-higg-index/
35
bluesign Approved
bluesign23 is an international standard established in 2000, with the
aim of regulating the use of harmful chemicals in products, especially
textile products. This certification represents a level of assurance
to consumers that the product is produced in accordance with the
responsible use of resources and the lowest possible impact on the
environment and people. bluesign's stringent standards provide
all relevant information and ensure consistent transparency and
traceability of all processing steps for raw materials. Materials
generated in the product chain or intermediate products are
evaluated by bluesign and bear the ‘bluesign® APPROVED’ label. The
management systems of bluesign standards include:
•
Input flow management: to eliminate harmful substances
and control the input source.
•
Production process management: to ensure products are
safe and environmentally friendly.
•
Output flow management: to check output products
in accordance with quality standards and customer
requirements.
bluesign certification offers businesses an effective way to ensure
compliance with the latest environment, health and safety
standards without compromising on function, quality or design
of the company's products by reducing resource waste and costs
at every stage of the production process and by reducing the
consumption of water and energy and the amount of chemicals in
wastewater.
23 Bluesign website: https://www.bluesign.com/en
36
Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS)
GOTS24 was developed with the aim of defining requirements
recognized worldwide, ensuring the organic character of textiles
from seeds to harvesting, and tracing the use of raw materials to
ensure that products are produced as labeled.
Only textile products that contain a minimum of 70% organic fibers
can be GOTS certified. All chemical inputs such as dyestuffs and
auxiliaries used must meet environmental and toxicological criteria.
Cotton is grown without the use of toxic and persistent pesticides
and synthetic fertilizers. Benefits to manufacturers include:
•
Risk reduction: GOTS is a comprehensive risk management
instrument for supply chains, with strict and extensive
environmental and social criteria.
•
Credibility: Third party certification serves as independent
external verification. It includes dual quality assurance and
onsite inspection and product testing.
•
Efficiency and productivity: GOTS wastewater management
and other requirements result in improved eco-efficiency.
•
Facilitates the sustainable supply chain management by
cutting costs because a company does not need to trace the
whole supply chain themselves.
•
Innovation and differentiation: Access to new markets such
as public procurement as GOTS is recognized by governments.
•
Sustainable market development: GOTS enables companies
to be market drivers.
24 GOTS website https://www.global-standard.org/
37
Oeko-Tex
Standard 100 by OEKO-TEX25 is one of the world's best-known labels
for textiles tested for harmful substances. It stands for customer
confidence and high product safety. The test is conducted by an
independent OEKO-TEX® partner institutes on the basis of an
extensive OEKO-TEX criteria catalog. The tests look for regulated
and non-regulated substances which may be harmful to human
health. The certification has following highlights:
•
Evaluate the components and materials of the textile products
according to the test criteria of Standard 100 Oeko-Tex.
•
If a product successfully passes the laboratory test, the company
receives the Standard 100 certificate.
•
An Oeko-Tex expert visits the company site to confirm all the
details. This may be before or shortly after certification.
•
The criteria prohibit the use of azo dyes, formaldehyde,
chemicals harmful to health, 100 other test parameters, and
take into account the intended use of the textiles.
Manufacturers benefit because:
•
Customers trust the labels on products and materials with the
Standard 100 Label.
•
The Standard 100 certificate helps gain access to buyers with
stricter requirements.
•
Companies can select new suppliers that meet their criteria.
•
They can enhance processing and product quality without the
cost of hiring independent assessors.
25 Oeko-Tex website: https://www.oeko-tex.com/en/
38
ISO 14001
ISO 1400126 is part of a set of international standards related to
environmental management that can be used by all business
organizations. It provides an assurance of environmentally friendly
operations in the textile and apparel industry, leading to continuous,
sustainable improvement and reducing the environmental impact
of manufacturing processes. To be certified, an enterprise needs to
follow these steps:
•
Internal training on the standard and legal requirements.
•
Documenting the company’s environmental management
system.
•
Implementing and monitoring the environmental
management system.
•
Assessment and inspection.
•
Acquire ISO 14001 certification.
•
Maintain ISO 14001 certification.
Benefits to manufacturers include:
•
Better environmental management by reducing waste and
more efficient use of raw materials and fuels.
•
Protect natural resources such as land and water.
•
Productivity improvements to cut operating costs.
•
Promoting the company image and increasing opportunities to
access better markets.
•
Meet the legal obligations needed to gain the trust of
stakeholders.
26 ISO 14000 Environmental Management Standard https://www.iso.org/iso-14001-environmental-management.html
39
Section 3. Eco-Tags on fashion products
Eco-tags or eco-labels and ‘green stickers’ are labelling systems for food and consumer
products. They are a form of sustainability measurement directed at consumers and are
intended to make it easy to take environmental concerns into account when shopping.
bluesign PRODUCTS
Consumers are becoming more aware of sustainability issues. They
want to know where the product came from, how it was made
and what the working conditions are. Brands, manufacturers, and
chemical suppliers from the entire textile industry can use the
bluesign system. The system allows users to analyze and certify raw
materials, chemical ingredients, emissions and energy consumption,
water emissions, and wastewater treatment. bluesign certification
is based on five principles:
•
Resource productivity
•
Consumer safety
•
Water emissions
•
Air emissions
•
Occupational health & safety
Overall, the process helps companies reduce the ecological footprint
of their products. A product with a bluesign label shows that the
product has eliminated harmful substances from the manufacturing
process and ensures that the finished product meets the strictest
and most comprehensive requirements for consumer protection.
40
EU Ecolabel
The European Ecolabel system27 allows manufacturers, retailers or
service providers to use the EU flower label for marketing purposes
throughout the 27 Member States of the EU. The system encourages
the use of sustainable practices in textile manufacturing, including
quantitative restrictions on wastewater emissions and hazardous
substances. The use of sustainable fibers is strongly encouraged.
Achieving EU Ecolabel certification brings a number of benefits.
It helps products stand out against their competitors, enhances
the company's image, boosts sales, and minimizes costs for the
enterprise. Additional benefits:
•
Increase product advantages in public and private procurement
and improve environmental efficiency.
•
Raise awareness of the environmental impact of products
with stakeholders including retailers, consumers, NGOs, and
environmental public administrations.
•
The EU ecolabel can be used in conjunction with its criteria as
a basis for setting fiscal measures to promote green products.
27 EU Ecolabel Product Groups and Criteria https://ec.europa.eu/environment/ecolabel/products-groups-and-criteria.html
41
FAIRTRADE
Fairtrade is a widely recognized ethical mark. It indicates that components or
ingredients for products produced by small-scale farmer organizations meet
Fairtrade's social, economic, and environmental standards. The criteria are
environmental protection, workers' rights, and Fairtrade insurance premiums
for investing in business or community projects. The main purpose is to help
and support small-scale farms, one of the most disadvantaged groups in the
world.
Fairtrade benefits:
•
Protect farmers from market price fluctuations. This ensures farmers
can earn a steady income and plan for their future. Fairtrade is the only
certification scheme that offers a minimum price protection for farmers.
Additional income from Fairtrade initiatives can also be introduced into
communities to develop better, more efficient farming techniques and to
increase the scale and the value of crop yields.
•
Fairtrade regulations and standards help protect the environment by
setting criteria for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, conserving
wildlife species, and preventing the use of harmful pesticides.
•
To be certified for Fairtrade, organizations must comply with strict
environmental standards. It encourages farmers and growers to take
training courses to help them better understand the environmental
impact of farming activities and improve their productivity.
•
Fairtrade promotes organic production, responsible waste management,
avoidance of genetically modified organisms, and maintenance of
solutions to reduce the environmental impact of processes and products.
•
Fairtrade promotes equality. Producers of Fairtrade products have more
control over their crops, work in safe, secure environments, and are
shielded from discrimination or prejudice.
42
Part 4.
Sector Outlook and Guidelines for
Green Transformation
© WWF-Viet Nam / Nguyen Ngoc Quang
43
Section 1. Sector Outlook for Green Transformation
Environmental footprint of the sector
The textile industry involves intensive water
extraction, and high energy consumption
for water heating and steam generation,
which leads to a significant impact on water
resources and greenhouse gas emissions.
It uses a large quantity of chemicals,
many of which are harmful and end up in
wastewater.
Although, at present, there is no official
data on energy inventory and water used
in all textile companies, the following key
concerning environmental footprints of
the sector are described to be targeted for
action:
•
According
to
VITAS
and
USAID,
Vietnam's textile and apparel industry
spends an average of USD 3 billion per
year on energy.28 Studies show that the
textile industry accounts for 8% of the
total energy demand in the industrial
sector and emits about 5 million tons
of CO2.29
•
Wet textile processing (yarn, fabric,
garment production) has the most
harmful environmental footprint as it
uses intensive freshwater abstraction for
rinsing, washing, pretreatment, dyeing, and
finishing.
•
Large volumes of wastewater containing
chemicals are generated after processing.
Many chemicals involved in production,
such as azo-containing dyes, PFOS and PFAS
(per- and poly-fluoro-alkyl substances) used
as water repellents, deca-BDEs as flame
retardants, and chlorine for bleaching.
All can cause serious impacts on the
environment and human health.
•
In dyeing enterprises, depending on the
technology and production equipment,
on average, each ton of product has the
potential to save about 0.2 to 0.5 kg of
dye; 100–200 kg of chemicals and auxiliary
substances; 50–100 m3 of water, and reduce
consumption of about 150 kg of oil and 50–
150 KWh of electricity.30
A green textile industry helps reduce production
costs while also reducing dependency on natural
resources and mitigating the adverse impacts of
production processes on the environment.
28 BUSINESS IN BRIEF 19/8. See the section on Low-emission energy technology: sole lifeline of textile and garment sector. https://english.vietnamnet.vn/fms/
business/186930/business-in-brief-19-8.html
29 Final report, Development of methodology and carry out sector research in garment sector and energy & water auditing to garment processing companies
in Vietnam (PROJECT NUMBER: VN205300/VZ1420 & 40001601/510001, WWF/Enerteam)
30 “Implementing cleaner production in Vietnamese textile and apparel enterprises”, Consumption & Production News, posted date: 18 Oct 2018
44
Opportunities for green transformation in
Vietnam
According to VITAS, at present, 70%
of Vietnamese companies are sewing
companies, 6% spinning companies, 17%
weaving/knitting companies, 4% dyeing
companies, and the remaining 3% are
ancillary organization. 85% of garment/
sewing factories are dedicated to cut,
make and trim (CMT) processes and 15%
of garment factories do free on board
(FOB)31 business for production including
raw materials, equipment, labors and
transportation.32
The following trends and facts offer
great opportunities for the sector' green
transformation:
•
There has been a shift of textile enterprises
from China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong to Viet
Nam. This is partly due to the recently signed
CPTPP and EVFTA agreements that give tax
advantages to Vietnam-originated textile
products. Other significant factors are the
current tension in US-China trade relations,
Vietnam’s favorable business environment
and economic and political stability (see
figure below).
•
As discussed in Part 2, major brands are
prioritizing their selection of business
partners who perform well on social and
environmental responsibilities. H&M, GAP,
Levi Strauss, and UNIQLO are examples
of where the industry is going. In order
to stay competitive in the world market,
manufacturers in Vietnam will have to adopt
31 FOB is a shipment term used to indicate whether the seller or the buyer is liable for goods that are damaged or destroyed during shipping. “FOB origin"
means the purchaser pays the shipping cost from the factory or warehouse and gains ownership of the goods as soon as it leaves its point of origin.
32 Textile and Garment Sector in Vietnam: Water Risks and Solutions, WWF, 2018
45
sustainable practices.
•
In a wider and longer-term, the textile
industry has embraced the idea that
to achieve sustainable growth, it is
essential to expand production to
original design sales and original brand
manufacturing.
•
The banking sector in Vietnam is
implementing green banking policies,
green credit, and increasing funding
for green projects in the textile and
garment industry.
•
There
are
continuous
technology
innovations in the sector. Information
technology to create and manage
data is making the dyeing process
less dependent on recipe makers’
technical skills and stabilizing dyeing
quality and increasing the Right-First-
Time (RFT) rate.33 Many producers can
achieve a 95–98% RFT rate instead of
70–80% without the use of information
technology. With robots, fabrication
and cutting reduces labor up to 80%
and saves 3% on materials. Reduction
of labor will have social consequences
and these need to be considered.
•
International Development Agencies
are strongly supporting the sector
technically, financially, and through
- GIZ’s Fabric project aims to promoting
sustainability production of the sector,
especially with the focus on in dyeing
technologies
and
management,
wastewater treatment practices and
technologies, and Process management.
- Water Resources Group 2030 under
the World Bank has been active in
Vietnam since 2016. The first Textile
Task Force was established in late 2019
co-chaired by Ministry of Planning and
Investment,
Vietnam
Environment
Administration and VITAS to promote
wastewater treatment and recycling
and reuse in plants and industrial parks
in the contribution to the country’s
water security.
- The IDH Sustainable Trade Initiative
“Race to the Top in Vietnam” is
a
collaborative
effort
between
the
Vietnamese
government,
the
Vietnamese
apparel
and
footwear
industry,
global
consumer
brands,
international organizations, and civil
society organizations for promoting
and enabling embedded sustainable
manufacturing practices.34
33 Right First Time (RFT): At each dyeing, the target shade must be achieved the first time, hence not requiring re-dyeing or re-correction by adding
more dyes or chemicals.
34 IDH Race to the Top
https://www.idhsustainabletrade.com/project/rttt/#:~:text=Race%20to%20the%20Top%20in,enabling%20embedded%20sustainable%20manufacturing%20
practices
information and knowledge sharing.
Some noticeable support programs and
projects are listed out below:
46
Mapping textile value chain stakeholders
and their roles
A stakeholder map helps identify the
actors responsible for greening Vietnam’s
textile sector. The map is structured into
different segments by their nature (public,
private, civil society) and different layers of
stakeholders (key, primary, secondary).
•
Key Stakeholders are those who can
use their mandate or position to exert
significant influence.
•
Primary
Stakeholders
are
those
who
directly affect or are affected, positively or
negatively, by the textile sector either as
subcontractors, cooperation partners or
designated beneficiaries.
•
Secondary Stakeholders or ‘intermediaries’
are persons or organizations who have
indirect influence on the textile sector.
The current map is a snapshot and will change
over time as organizations can change their
status, become more or less relevant, disappear,
or new organizations appear.
Key Stakeholders
Textile training
bodies
GIZ
WWF
USAID
UNEP
IFC
UNIDO
IDH
World Bank
Better Work
SDC
EU Switch Asia
Civil Society and Donors
Private Sector
Public Sector
Standard
holders
Factories
Tier 3 and 4
Consultancies
Suppliers for
- ETP technologies
- Textile technologies
National
legislature
Vietnam Environment
Administration
ESI
TRI
Local community
VICOSA
VITAS
MONRE
MOIT
Brands
Provincial People’s
Committees
Factories tier 2
Industrial Parks
Chemical suppliers
SAC
ZDHC
Banks and Financial
Institutions
Factories Tier 1
Universities
Environment
policies Dept.
Province’s Industrial
Zone Authority
DOIT
DONRE
General
Statistics Oﬃce
Workforce
Primary Stakeholders
Secondary Stakeholders
47
A stakeholder map can help establish a
multi-stakeholder platform for constructive
dialogue between government, private
sector
and
civil
society
to
foster
implementation of effective environmental
measures, in particular by SMEs. A similar
platform at the regional level will help bring
the private sector closer to the river basin
management and governance decision making
processes.
Section 2. Green vision and goals for the Viet Nam textile sector to 2030
Contributing to Vietnam’s international
and national commitments
The textile green transformation will
contribute to country’s effort to meet its
sustainable development, climate change,
and environmental commitments, which
are specifically addressed in 3 following
remarkable legislation documents:
•
2030
Agenda
for
Sustainable
Development:
mainly
Goal
6
“Ensure availability and sustainable
management of water and sanitation for
all”, Goal 12 on “Ensuring a sustainable
production and consumption model”
and Goal 13 “Take urgent action to
combat climate change and its impacts”
•
Paris Agreement on Climate Change:
Undertake industrial GHG emission
reduction
to
implement
NDC
in
accordance with national context on
the basis of annual global effort assessment,
including
measurement,
reporting
and
verification. •
National
Strategy
on
Green
Growth:
Strategic task 1 on reducing the intensity
of greenhouse gas emissions and promote
the use of clean and renewable energy, and
strategic task 2 on greening production.
Textile Green Vision
In 2019, Vietnam was among the world's top 5
countries and region exporting textiles. On the
occasion of 20th anniversary of the Vietnam
Textile and Apparel Association, the Prime
Minister expressed a great expectation that the
sector continuously maintains its position in
the top 3 textile exporting countries;  upgrade
its position in the supply chain upstream at the
fabric production stage and downstream with
the target to have 30 fashion brands in the 48
world market by 2030; and fully embed the
environment protection principles in the
sector development.
To achieve the expectation, a green vision
can be stated as: “By 2030, the textile and
apparel sector in Viet Nam will become
the number one destination for buyers
searching for sustainable supplies of textiles
and apparel products that do not harm the
environment or people. The sector is more
circular, efficient and sustainable in terms
of use of water and energy, and adopts
responsible wastewater discharge and
solid waste management practices.”
Specific green goals for the textile sector
have been formulated as below: •
40% water consumption reduction by
applying water-free dyeing technology
and reusing treated wastewater for
rinsing, washing and cleaning purposes
by 2025 and annually reduced water
exploitation and consumption after
2025.
•
At least 20% of recycled polyester fiber
and 15% of organic cotton is used to
minimize newly processed petroleum-
derived materials and the use of
plant protection products (i.e. pesticides,
fertilizers, chemicals).35
•
Formation
of
10
big
textile-specific
industrial zones (300–500 ha each) with
environmentally friendly infrastructure and
operations.36
•
Increased the number of eco-labelled
products (e.g. BCI, Oeko-Tex Standard 100,
LEED) and year-on-year increased number
of manufacturers who apply and maintain
Higg Index, ZDHC, ISO 14001 and other
certifications.
•
Annually reduced resource consumption
and textile wastes through conducting
resource efficient and cleaner production
method, BATs and BEPs, and industrial
symbiosis practices.
•
Increase the use of solar and other
renewable energy sources and strive for
10% of electricity from renewable sources37
by 2025 and year-on-year growths in the
period of 2026 - 2030.
•
Reduce energy consumptions of entire
sector by at least 0.4 – 0.7% year-on-year
from 2021 to 2030.
•
Continuously reduce the use of hazardous
chemicals and move towards zero discharge
by 2030.
35 Developing sustainable value chains in the textile industry, Vinatex News, posted date: 24 Dec 2019
36 Book "Ngành công nghiệp Dệt May Việt Nam với cuộc CMCN lần thứ 4”, VINATEX, July 2020
37 Developing sustainable value chains in the textile industry, Vinatex News, posted date: 24 Dec 2019
49
Section 3. Strategic workstreams toward green transformation
Promoting green supply chain
Green transformation in textile industry aims at decoupling natural resources use  and environmental
Impacts from the sector's growth throughout the supply chain. Some strategic approaches are to be
mainstreamed along different stages of the supply chain, including but not limited to the following:
Reduce production costs while also reducing
dependency
on
natural
resources
(water,
energy, raw materials, chemicals) and mitigating
the adverse impacts of production processes
on
the
environment.
Some
appropriate
methods include Resource Efficient and Cleaner
Production, Waste Minimization and Industrial
Symbiosis.
Sustainable and efficient use
of resources:
“A circular textiles economy describes an industrial
system which aims at phasing out substances of
concern and microfiber release; transforming the
way clothes are designed, sold and used to break free
from their increasingly disposable nature; radically
improving recycling by transforming clothing design,
collection, and reprocessing; and making effective use
of resources and moving to renewable input”.38
Circular economy practices:
Textile green product design and eco-labels can be
achieved through the entire production process,
starting with natural materials that go into the
garments, and in designs which use organic fibers
and natural dyestuffs, recycled materials, minimal
use of chemicals (e.g., no bleaching) and strictly
eliminating harmful chemicals.
Green product designs and eco-labels
for textiles and apparel products:
The aim of green logistics is to move and deliver
raw materials and products at the lowest possible
cost while maintaining the highest standards and
minimizing environmental impact in the process. It
implies innovation in all steps of the supply chain from
product conception to the final use of products.39
Green logistics:
38 A new textiles economy: Redesigning fashion's future, (2017, http://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications)
39 Green Logistics: The Carbon Agenda. Alan McKinnon. Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. https://www.logforum.net/pdf/6_3_1_10.pdf
50
Fiber
Spinning
Garment
Weaving
& Dyeing
Supporting
Industries
Sustainable & eﬃcient
use of resources
1. Green manufacturing
2. Smart technologies
3. Green ﬁnance
4. Capacity building on
green manufacturing
Green &
circular designs
Green
logistics
Formation of industrial clusters which comply with international and national
environmental legislation. Application of 4.0 technologies in yarn production and
quality monitoring (e.g., SpinMaster, WeaveMASTER, KnitMASTER, ESSENTIAL-Rieter
Digital Spinning Suite), production and performance management for textile finishing
(e.g. OrgaTEX.MES), predictive maintenance (e.g., UPTIME, ESSENTIALmaintain) can
be considered to ensure sector productivity.
Smart technologies
51
Taping green funds
The more favorable credit conditions
(e.g. preferential interest rates, supports
for collateral deposits, grace periods)40
that financial system offers, the more
green investment projects are realized
by textile and garment enterprises. This
would accelerate green transformation at
the company level. Some main tasks for
promoting green investment include but
not limited to the following:
•
To diversify financial support sources
for
implementing
environmental
protection projects.
•
To increase domestic fund sources
for investment projects designed for
specialization,
modernization,
and
environmentally friendly production.
•
To annually increase the number
of
enterprises
achieving
domestic
or foreign support from funds and
banks to implement sustainable green
projects and programs.
Capacity building for the sector human resource
Inadequate human resource is one of the main
obstacles for the current Vietnamese textile
and apparel enterprises aiming at greening
and sustainability. Therefore, human resource
development is among the decisive factors for
a green vision. Key tasks for capacity building
include but not limited to the following:
•
To increase the number of managers
and supervisors who can apply modern
management
models
such
as
LEAN
production, just-in-time (JIT) management,
enterprise resource planning systems, and
environmental and energy management
systems.
•
To increase the proportion of specialized
technical staff and skilled workers with
specialized training on green subjects, best
available practices and techniques, and who
can apply 4.0 technologies to the production
process thereby raising labor productivity
and product quality.
•
To set up skills development training via
technical and vocational education training
classes and support companies to adopt
CSR targets for improving the knowledge
and capacity of their employees regarding
sustainable production.
40 Green financial opportunity for sustainable production in Vietnam's textile and apparel industry, Financial & Monetary Market Review News,
posted date: 31 July 201
52
Section 4. Collective Action Plan
This collective action plan is based on a ‘map’ of textile value chain
stakeholders and has four components with corresponding actions:
The table illustrates the proposed actions with coordination needed
between authorities and related organizations for realizing the green vision.
Institutional arrangements for
green transformation
Capacity development
Policy advocacy
Communication and
information
53
Collective Action Plan Coordination
Host organization
Cooperating organization
Action
Institutional Arrangements for Green Transformation
Review and refer to international standards
and requirements for setting and periodically
updating sector standards and benchmarks on
waste discharge, energy consumption, water
use, materials and chemical use applied to textile
and garment companies (e.g., Manufacturing
Restricted Substances List, health and safety
compliance). The standards will need to be clearly
communicated and guidance offered on how to
meet the standards and fill capacity gaps.
Vietnam Textile and Apparel
Association Brands
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment
Strictly enforce compliance to legislation through
inspection and punishment for violation of
environmental legislation with close cooperation
between the environmental authorities and local
environmental management agencies.
Local Departments of Natural
Resources and Environment
•
Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment
•
Environmental Police
Department
Promote the application of Industry 4.0
achievements such as automation and effective
information technologies.
Ministry of Industry and Trade
Ministry of Science and Technology
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
Provide support mechanism for research on
new, renewable and natural-origin materials and
chemicals substituted for unsustainable ones, and
design for sustainability on the basis of life cycle
assessment.
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
•
Ministry of Science
and Technology
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
54
Capacity Development
Host organization
Cooperating organization
Action
Based on demand forecasts and existing
production capacity, plan the development
and expansion of supporting industries with the
integration of environmental and social standards
and requirements at the design, planning and
investment phases.
•
Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment
•
Ministry of Planning and
Investment
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
People’s Committees
Enhance cooperation between textile
management agencies and local authorities to
address concerns and increase opportunities for
sustainable growth investment project.
Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
•
People’s Committees
Promote green credit lines in the banking
system with clear criteria and schedules for
supporting enterprises to adopt green production
innovations.
Vietnam Textile and Apparel
Association
Develop tools and training for screening
investments for environmental performance
to help local authorities, banks, and investors
make decisions (planning and investment
departments, industry and trade departments,
natural resources and environment departments).
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Commercial banks
•
Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment
•
People’s Committees
Strengthen the links between universities,
colleges, and vocational schools with
manufacturing companies and technology and
chemical suppliers to improve the sector’s capacity
to attract students and trainees and better match
the human resource supply with demand. Training
programs should be developed and updated
with inputs from enterprises in terms of course
content and production practices.
Ministry of Industry and Trade
Ministry of Labour, Invalids
and Social Affairs
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
•
Education and
training bodies
•
Enterprises
•
State Bank of Vietnam
•
Commercial banks
55
Create a catalogue of Best Available Technologies
and Best Environmental Practices (BATs and BEPs)
most relevant for the Vietnamese context.
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Enterprises
•
Consultancies
•
International
development agencies
Organize capacity building activities for
government and enterprise personnel about
access to green financing to help enterprises take
advantage of opportunities to get funding for
investment in innovation and help government
officers monitor progress and better enforce
legislation.
•
Enterprises
•
Provincial People’s Committees
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
•
State Bank of Vietnam
•
Financial institutions
Host organization
Cooperating organization
Action
Strengthen international cooperation in terms of
advanced technologies, materials and chemicals,
greening production and Industry 4.0 practices.
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
Develop human resources for building and
promoting Vietnamese brands to help the
sector be more proactive in sourcing raw
materials, including local-origin materials and
chemicals.
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Enterprises
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
Support capacity building for enterprises and
other sector stakeholders in terms of in-depth
management and technical skills through
professional sector information portals, study
tours, trade fairs, and networking.
•
Ministry of Industry and Trade
•
Brands
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
•
Manufacturers
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Enterprises
•
Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment
56
Host organization
Cooperating organization
Action
Promote the application of BATs and BEPs
in textile and garment enterprises through
awareness raising, guidelines, training, study
tours, and onsite technical support.
•
Consultancies
•
Brands
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
•
Manufacturers
Interventions to mitigate resource use and air,
soil, and water pollution using the Higg Index and
ZDHC as industry standards.
•
Consultancies
•
Brands
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
Enhance the research and application of recover,
recycle and re-use inputs to production between
manufacturing enterprises as part of a circular
textile economy.
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Enterprises
•
Consultancies
•
Ministry of Science
and Technology
•
Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment
Establish an updated information system on
energy, water, and chemical use of enterprises
by integrating relevant indicators in the annual
Enterprise Survey. This will help enterprises and
sector management authorities track performance
improvements.
Enterprises
•
General Statistics
Office
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
Planning and investment in textile industrial zones
or clusters using clear and transparent standards
on environment, construction, and social issues.
Promote the development of eco textile IPs.
Promote the implementation of resource efficient
and cleaner production technologies at company
zone/cluster level and offer privileges for accessing
technical assistance and preferential financial
support.
•
Ministry of Natural Resources
and Environment
•
Ministry of Construction
•
Ministry of Labour, Invalids and Social Affairs
•
Ministry of Planning
and Investment
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
People’s Committees
Policy Advocacy
57
Provide legal instructions and incentives regarding
the application of best practices, cleaner
technology and equipment (e.g., methodologies
for improvement, tax privileges, guidelines for
accessing financial and technical support).
People’s Committees
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
Ministry of Finance
Revise legislation to facilitate re-use and recycle
industrial activities to manage solid wastes and
wastewater.
Industrial Management Boards
•
Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment
•
Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development
•
Ministry of Construction
Establish a reporting scheme which is
transparent about environmental performance of
manufacturers.
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Brands
•
Enterprises
•
Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment
•
General Statistics
Office
Host organization
Cooperating organization
Action
Promote public-private investment for science
and technology development and transfer,
so that manufacturers are capable to utilize
environmentally sound technologies and
practices.
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Enterprises
•
Consultancies
•
Mistry of Finance
•
State Bank of Vietnam
•
Ministry of Science and Technology
Provide privileges in terms of site clearance,
land rent exemptions and relief, tax incentives
(corporate income tax, export and import duty),
and loan interest rates for investment projects for
raw and auxiliary materials production.
Ministry of Industry and Trade
•
Ministry of Finance
•
People’s Committees
•
Banks
Provide guidelines and incentives regarding the
use of domestic raw and auxiliary materials. (tax,
access to financial and technical support).
•
Departments of Industry and Trade
•
Departments of Finance
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
Ministry of Finance
58
Host organization
Cooperating organization
Action
Government and development organizations
provide and assist the sector’s manufacturing
enterprises and workforce training organizations
to keep up with new requirements in legislation,
international trends, verification and certifications,
privileges and corresponding conditions and
procedures, and environmental risks. Set up a web
portal for the sector or integrate this information
into existing official web portals.
•
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
•
Brands
•
Enterprises
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
International
development agencies
Create a dialogue mechanism for sector
stakeholders through VITAS annual meeting
activities and web-based forums so stakeholders
are aware of and take appropriate responsibility
for greening the sector.
•
Ministry of Industry and Trade
•
Minitry of Labour, Invalids and
Social Affairs
•
Brands
•
Enterprises
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
Integrate big data into Vietnam's textile and
garment industry and link with the data from
global buyers and supply chain operators.
•
Brands
•
Enterprises
•
Ministry of Industry
and Trade
•
Ministry of Science
and Technology
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
Establish a networking mechanism involving key,
primary and secondary sector stakeholders.
•
Ministry of Industry and Trade
•
Brands
•
Enterprises
•
Consultancies
•
Ministry of Science
and Technology
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
Periodic forums to share technologies for
environmental protection, learning from global
best practices, green technology adoption, and
update the list of applicable BATs and BETs for
sharing experience.
•
International development
agencies
•
Consultancies
•
Ministry of Science and Technology
•
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
•
Ministry of Natural
Resources and
Environment
Communication and Networking
59
Conclusions T
extile and garment industry has been one of the most important
export sectors in Vietnam since recent years. The sector also
provides stable employment to a big proportion of the available
workforce in Vietnam.
In the context of FTAs approved between Vietnam and partner
countries and regions, the sector needs to take strong steps towards
being more on its own initiative in raw materials supply, especially
domestic fabric production development to meet these FTAs' rules
of origin. The only way to set a sustainable development pathway
for fabric and garment production is to truly embrace principles
and best practices on environmental protection, green production,
conservation of non-renewable resources such as water, electricity,
using recycled materials and sound chemical management.
The guideline provides an outlook of the Textile Sector in Vietnam
and highlights an overview of appropriate tools and certification
mechanisms that can help in the green transformation of the
sector. The case for green transformation is supported by evidences
coming from companies that have already started implementing
practices to reduce their environmental impacts. However, the only
way to truly achieve a green transformation of the entire Textile
sector is through a broad coalition of all the actors associated with
the sector, all working towards a common goal of a 'green vision'.
It is hoped that this guideline, prepared as a part of WWF's project
"Greening the Textile sector", will assist the transition of Vietnam's
textile and apparel sector towards sustainable development and
actively support the achievement of national development goals.
60
Annex 1. Production chain
Textile and garment production is a long chain involving multiple processing steps and inputs to turn fiber
into ready-to-wear products. The diagram below is an overview of the production chain.
FIBER PRODUCTION
YARN
SPINNING
TEXTURIZING
YARN DYEING
SIZING
WEAVING
KNITTING
PRE-TREATMENT
DYEING/PRINTING
FINISHING
MAKING UP
TUFTING
NONWOVEN
MAKING UP
FIBER
DYEING
61
Annex 2. Inputs and waste streams
This diagram shows inputs and waste streams of an general textile wet processing stage. Waste streams
cannot be eliminated but they can be reduced and cleaned before being used as inputs to another process
or returned to the environment. There have been efforts from sector stakeholders to improve techniques,
technologies, and management practices. Many such actions have had positive financial and environmental
impacts that contribute to sustainable development.
INPUT
Fabric
Water
Caustic
Steam
Spent Liquor (I)
Electricity
Wash water (I)
Peroxide
Others
Water
Acid
Steam
Water
Blanket wash water (I)
Print Paste
Paste Spills (I)
Electricity
Screen and squeeze
wash water (I)
Electricity
Others
Hot Air
Electricity
Flue gases (g)
Steam
Wash water (I)
Water
Finishing chemicals
Wash water (I)
Salt
Spent Dye Liquor (I)
Dye
Flash steam (g)
Vented air (g)
PROCESS
WASTE STREAMS
DESIZING,
SCOURING AND
BLEACHING
DYEING
PRINTING
FINISHING
Fuel Oil
DG set exhaust (g)
Flash steam
Coal
Boiler Flue gas (g)
Boiler ash (s)
Bleaching sludge (s)
Other waste
Condensate(I)
Leaking compressed air (g)
Electricity
UTILITIES
62
Annex 3. Best Available Technologies and Best Environmental Practices
in the global textile and garment sector.
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
1
•
Conduct internal or external training on resource-specific, process-specific and
machinery-specific issues.
Education/training
of employees
2
•
Apply advance Industrial Maintenance Practices, such as Productive
Maintenance, Total Productive Maintenance or Predictive Maintenance (e.g. UPTIME, ESSENTIALmaintain);
•
Apply automatic lubrication system.
Industrial maintenance
3
•
Material Safety Data Sheet in place in understandable language;
•
Toxic and dangerous chemicals should be stored separately;
•
First aid facilities available, evacuation and emergency procedures in place and
rehearsed regularly;
•
Records of accidents and incidents (near-misses) must be kept;
•
Automated chemical dosing and dispensing system.
Chemical storage,
handling, dosing and
dispensing
Management and housekeeping practices
4
•
Regularly revising recipe to identify and remove unnecessary chemicals;
•
Prioritize auxiliaries and chemicals with a high degree of biodegradability, low
toxicity, low volatility and low smell intensity;
•
Using high-quality water (where needed) in wet processes helps avoid/reduce
chemicals usage, which needed to prevent side effects caused by the presence
of impurities in the water;
•
Avoiding the surplus chemicals and auxiliaries;
•
Optimizing scheduling in production;
•
Reusing solutions from dyeing/washing baths whenever possible;
•
Filling of tanks with volatile compounds using properly precaution measures.
Minimization/
optimization of
chemicals used
63
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
5
•
Automated color kitchens and automated chemicals dosing and dispensing systems;
•
Automated systems for just-in-time-preparations of liquors;
•
On-line measurement of the liquor pick-up and of the quantity of processed fabric,
the exact amount of liquor can be prepared and added. Liquor surpluses and
wastewater pollution are therefore minimized;
•
Using automated dosing systems where the chemicals are not premixed before
being introduced into the applicator or dyeing machine. In this case, individual
streams are used for each of the products.
Automated preparation
and dispensing of
chemicals
6
•
Use domestic water flow restrictor to keep water flow at 5-7 liter/minute for
washing and 9-12 liter/minute for showering;
•
Installation of flow control devices and automatic stop valves on continuous
machine;
•
Installation of automatic controllers to accurately control of fill volume and liquor
temperature;
•
Substitution of overflow-flood rinsing method (in batch processes) by smart
rinsing method;
•
Optimization of scheduling in production;
•
Water re-use / recycle whenever possible.
Optimize the use
of water
7
•
Setup energy management system ISO 50001;
•
Heat-insulation of pipes, valves, tanks, machines;
•
Optimizing boiler houses;
•
Segregation of hot and cold wastewater streams prior to heat recovery and recovery
of heat from the hot stream;
•
Replace normal transformer by Zigzag autotransformer;
•
Replace normal lamp by LED lamp. Using automatic lamp sensor in suitable location;
•
Replace standard motor by new high efficiency motor;
•
Replace normal V-belt by High Torque Drive one;
•
Installing frequency-controlled electric motors equipped with harmonic filter;
•
Controlling moisture content in the circulating air and on the textile in stenters;
•
Proper adjustment of drying temperature and time.
Optimize the use of
energy
64
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
8
•
Separate capture of high-loaded waste streams from low-concentrated effluent
to allow more efficient treatment;
•
Separate collection of unavoidable solid waste;
•
Reduction of packaging;
•
Use of returnable containers;
•
Recycling of textile wastes.
Management of
waste streams
9
•
Establish the internal system to measure and record the input/output streams of
unit process steps;
•
Evaluate the streams from time to time and to other sites or similar processes to
find out room for improvement.
Input/output
streams inventory and
evaluation
10
•
Designers compare several different product designs in terms of impact categories
such as energy use, toxicity, acidification, CO2 emissions, ozone depletion, resource
depletion, etc. to have appropriate selection.
Design based on
product life cycle
11
•
Sorting collected textiles according to their condition and the types of fibers used;
•
Textile materials are shredded or pulled into fibers and depending on the end use of
the yarn, other fibers may be incorporated. The yard is re-spun ready for later weaving
or knitting;
•
Fibers sometimes can simply be compressed to create new textile fillings;
•
Cotton and silk is used to manufacture paper and to wipe and polish cloths for a range
of industries from the automotive to the mining sector;
•
Other types of textiles can be reprocessed into fibers for upholstery, insulation, and
even building materials.
Recycling and reuse
12
•
Application of 4.0 technologies in yarn production and quality monitoring (e.g.
SpinMaster, WeaveMASTER, KnitMASTER, ESSENTIAL-Rieter Digital Spinning Suite),
production and performance management for textile finishing (e.g. OrgaTEX.MES).
Smart technologies
for management
and monitoring the
production
65
13
Substitute alkylphenol ethoxylates and other hazardous surfactants with substitutes
that are readily biodegradable or bio eliminable in the wastewater treatment plant
and do not form toxic metabolites.
Surfactants
Pretreatment:
14
•
Uses biodegradable or bio-eliminable complexing agents (enzymes);
•
Avoid or reduce the use of complexing agent in pre-treatment and dyeing
processes by a combination of:
Complexing agents
- Softening of fresh water to remove the iron and the hardening alkaline-earth
cations from the process water;
- Using a dry process to remove coarse iron particles from the fabric before
bleaching;
- Removing the iron that is inside the fiber using acid demineralization, or better,
non-hazardous reductive agents before bleaching heavily contaminated fabrics;
- Applying hydrogen peroxide under optimal controlled conditions.
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
15
Antifoaming agents
•
Minimize or avoid their use by:
- using bath-less air-jets, where the liquor is not agitated by fabric rotation;
- re-using treated bath.
•
Select anti-foaming agents that are free from mineral oils and that are
characterized by high bio-elimination rates.
16
•
Select knitted fabric that has been processed using water-soluble and biodegradable
lubricants instead of the conventional mineral oil-based lubricants. Remove them by
water washing. With knitted fabrics made of synthetic fibers the washing step needs
to be carried out before thermos-fixation (to remove the lubricants and avoid them
being released in the form of air emissions);
•
Carry out the thermos-fixation step before washing and treat the air emissions
generated from the stenter frame by dry electro-filtration systems that allow energy
recovery and separate collection of the oil;
•
Remove the non-water-soluble oils using organic solvent washing. This technique is
convenient when other non water-soluble preparation agents, such as silicone oils,
are present on the fabric.
Removing knitting
lubricants
66
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
17
•
Select raw material processed with low add-on techniques (e.g. pre-wetting of the
warp yarn) and more effective bio-eliminable sizing agents combined with the use of
efficient washing systems for desizing and low Food to Microorganism Ratio waste
water treatment techniques to improve the bio-eliminability of the sizing agents;
•
Adopt the oxidative route when it is not possible to control the source of the raw
material;
•
Combine desizing/scouring and bleaching in one single step;
•
Recover and re-use the sizing agents by ultra-filtration.
Desizing
18
•
Use H2O2 as preferred bleaching agent;
•
Limit the use of sodium hypochlorite only to cases in which high whiteness has
to be achieved and to fabrics that are fragile and would suffer depolymerization.
In these special cases, to reduce the formation of hazardous AOX, sodium
hypochlorite bleaching is carried out in a two-step process in which peroxide is
used in the first step and hypochlorite in the second. Effluent from hypochlorite
bleaching is kept separate from the other streams and mixed effluents in order to
reduce formation of hazardous AOX.
Bleaching
19
•
Recover and re-use alkali from mercerizing rinsing water;
•
Re-use the alkali-containing effluent in other preparation treatments.
Mercerizing
Dyeing
20
•
Apply DyeCoo, the world’s first 100% water and process chemical-free textile
dyeing solution. DyeCoo disrupts the traditional dye system by using carbon
dioxide as a solvent instead of water.
Water-free dyeing
21
•
Reduce the number of dyes (one way to reduce the number of dyes is by using
trichromatic systems);
•
Use automated systems for dosage and dispensing of dyes, only considering the
manual operation for dyes that are used infrequently.
Dosage and dispensing
of dye formulations
67
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
22
•
Use machinery fitted with automatic controllers of fill volume, temperature and
other dyeing cycle parameters, indirect heating and cooling systems, hoods and
doors to minimize vapor losses;
•
Choose the machinery that is most fitted to the size of the lot to be processed to
allow its operation in the range of nominal liquor ratios for which it is designed.
Modern machines can be operated at approximately constant liquor ratio whilst
being loaded at a level as low as 60% of their nominal capacity (or even 30% of
their nominal capacity with yarn dyeing machines);
•
Select machinery according as far as possible to the requirements:
Batch dyeing processes
- Low- or ultra-low liquor ratio;
- In-process separation of the bath from the substrate;
- In-process separation of process liquor from the rinsing liquor;
- Mechanical liquor extraction to reduce carry-over liquid volume and improve
rinsing efficiency;
- Reduced duration of the cycle.
•
Re-use rinse water for the next dyeing or reconstitution and re-use the dye bath
when technical considerations allow.
23
•
Using low add-on liquor application systems and minimizing volume capacity of
the dip trough when using pad dyeing techniques;
•
Adopting dispensing systems where the chemicals are dispensed on-line
as separate streams, being mixed only immediately before being fed to the
applicator;
•
Using one of the following systems for dosing the padding liquor, based on
measurement of the pick up: Measure the amount of dyeing liquor consumed by
reference to the quantity of processed fabric (length of the fabric multiplied by its
specific weight), the resulting values are automatically processed and used for the
preparation of the next comparable batch; Use the rapid batch dyeing technique,
where rather than being prepared for the whole batch before starting the dyeing
batch, the dyestuff solution is prepared just in time, in several steps, based on on-
line measurement of the pick-up;
•
Increase rinsing efficiency according to the principles of countercurrent rinsing
and reduction of carry-over.
Continuous dyeing
process
68
24
•
Substitute sodium dithionite in PES after-treatment by applying one of the two
proposed techniques:
PES and PES blended
dyeing with disperse
dyes
- Replace sodium dithionite with reducing agent based on sulfinic acid derivatives.
This should be combined with measures in order to ensure that only the strict
amount of reducing agent needed to reduce the dyestuff is consumed (e.g. by
using nitrogen to remove oxygen from the liquor and from the air in the machine);
- Use of disperse dyes that can be cleared in alkaline medium by hydrolitic
solubilization instead of reduction.
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
•
Use optimized dye formulations that contain dispersing agents with high degree of
bio-eliminability.
25
•
Replace conventional powder and liquid sulphur dyes with stabilised non-pre-
reduced sulphide-free dyestuffs or with pre-reduced liquid dye formulations with a
sulphide content of less than 1%;
•
Replace sodium sulphide with sulphur-free reducing agents or sodium dithionite, in
that order of preference;
•
Adopt measures to ensure that only the strict amount of reducing agent needed to
reduce the dyestuff is consumed (e.g. by using nitrogen to remove oxygen from the
liquor and from the air in the machine);
•
Use hydrogen peroxide as preferred oxidant.
Dyeing with sulphur
dyes
26
•
Use high-fixation, low-salt reactive dyes;
•
Avoid the use of detergents and complexing agents in the rinsing and neutralization
steps after dyeing by applying hot rinsing integrated with recovery of the thermal
energy from the rinsing effluent.
Batch dyeing with
reactive dyes
27
•
Substitute chrome dyes with reactive dyes or, where not possible, use ultra-low
chroming methods that fulfil all the following requirements as defined: an emission
factor of 50mg chromium per kg of wool treated is achieved, which corresponds to
a chromium concentration of 5mg/l in the spent chroming bath when a 1:10 liquor
ratio is used; and there is no chromium (VI) is detectable in the waste water (using a
standard method able to detect Cr VI at concentrations < 0.1 mg/l).
Wool dyeing
69
28
•
Reduce printing paste losses in rotary screen printing by: minimizing the volume of
printing paste supply systems; recovering printing paste from the supply system at
the end of each run; recycling residual printing paste;
•
Reduce water consumption in cleaning operations by a combination of: start/stop
control of cleaning of the printing belt; re-use of the cleanest part of the rinsing
water from the cleaning of the squeegees, screens and buckets; re-use of the
rinsing water from cleaning of the printing belt;
•
Use digital ink-jet printing machines for the production of short runs (less than
100m) for flat fabrics, when product market considerations allow.
•
Use digital jet printing machines for printing carpet and bulky fabrics, except for
resist and reserve printing and similar situations.
General best practices
in printing
29
•
The one-step process with the controlled addition of moisture, where the
moisture is applied either as foam or by spraying a defined quantity of water mist;
•
Or the two-steps printing method.
Reactive printing step
30
•
Thickeners with low-emission of volatile organic carbon (or not containing
any volatile solvent at all) and formaldehyde-poor binders. The associated air
emission value is <0.4 g Org.-C/kg textile (assuming 20m3 air/kg textile);
•
Alkylphenol ethoxylate-free and high degree of bio-eliminability;
•
Reduced ammonia content (associated emission value 0.6g NH3 /kg textile
(assuming 20m3 air/kg textile).
Pigment printing step
Printing
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
•
Ensure minimum discharge of heavy metals in the waste water when dyeing wool
with metal complex dyes. BAT associated values are emission factors of 10 - 20 mg/
kg of treated wool, which correspond to 1 - 2 mg/l of chromium in the spent dye
bath when a 1:10 liquor ratio is used. These performances can be achieved by:
•
Give preference to a pH-controlled process when dyeing with pH-controllable dyes
(acid and basic dyes) so that level dyeing is obtained with maximum exhaustion of
dyes and insect resist agents and minimum use of organic levelling agents.
- Using auxiliaries that enhance dye uptake like;
- Using pH control methods to maximize final bath exhaustion for other make-ups.
70
31
•
Minimize residual liquor by: using minimal application techniques (e.g. foam
application, spraying) or reducing volume of padding devices; re-using padding
liquors if quality is not affected;
•
Minimize energy consumption in stenter frames by:
•
Use low air emission optimized recipes.
General best practices
in finishing
32
•
Use formaldehyde-free or formaldehyde-poor (<0.1% formaldehyde content in
the formulation) cross-linking agents.
Easy-care treatment
step
33
•
Apply the softening agents by pad mangles or better, by spraying and foaming
application systems, instead of carrying out this treatment by exhaustion directly
in the batch dyeing machine.
Softening treatment
step
34
•
Ozone Dynamic technology uses only electrical power and air to fabric finishing.
Benefits: Uses no liquid chemicals; Saving of 67% water, 85% of chemical
consumption; 62% of energy; Reduction of 55% in production time;
•
Nanobubble &quot;eFlow&quot; technology (patented by Jeanologia): 3 different
finishing options (softening/conditioning, functionalization and dyeing); Saving
up to 50% of chemical products; 86% of water consumption and 44% of energy
consumption; and eliminate 97% of wastewater.
Denim finishing
Finishing
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
- Using mechanical dewatering equipment to reduce water content of the
incoming fabric;
- Optimising exhaust airflow through the oven, automatically maintaining
exhaust humidity between 0.1 and 0.15 kg water/kg dry air, considering the time
taken to reach equilibrium conditions;
- Installing heat recovery systems;
- Fitting insulating systems;
- Ensuring optimal maintenance of the burners in directly heated stenters.
71
Efficient wahsing
BATs and BEPs
Actions
Nr.
Washing
35
•
Substitute overflow washing/rinsing with drain/fill methods or “smart rinsing”
techniques;
•
Reduce water & energy consumption in continuous processes by: installing high-
efficiency washing machinery; introducing heat recovery equipment;
•
When halogenated organic solvent cannot be avoided (e.g. with fabrics that are
heavily loaded with preparations such as silicone oils that are difficult to remove
with water), use fully closed-loop equipment. It is essential that the equipment fulfil
the requirements and provisions be taken for in-loop destruction (e.g. by advanced
oxidation processes) of the persistent pollutants in order to avoid any possible
contamination of groundwater arising from diffuse pollution and accidents;
•
Install special filter (PlanetCare filter, coral filters, Lint LUV-R filter etc.) for washing/
rinsing machine on water drain pipes to trap microplastics/ microfiber before they
could be released into the wastewater.
72
Annex 4. Lessons learned from WWF textile projects in different countries
Process
Waste
Reduction
Efficiency
Improvement
Automation
and Control
Practice Improvement
Technology
Change or
Process Change
Without Change in the Technology
or Process
Yarn
Manufacturing
And Spinning
Heat recovery
from
wastewater
Installation of
waste heat
boiler
Recycling
balloon
squeezing
wastewater
Re-use of final
rinsing water
Fill-and-draw
system
Reverse
osmosis
optimization
Use of Low
Liquor Soft
Flow
Machines
Upgrade the
high MLR
machines to
low MLR
machines
Thermic fluid oil
decarbonization
for improved
heating
Proper
insulation for
steam
pipelines and
feedwater
tank
Auto Dosing
of dyes
& chemicals
Use of solar
water heating
Re-use the
wash water
bath
Oxygen trim
control
at boiler
Caustic
recovery
plants
Re-use the cooling water in
drying oven of printing machine
to wash the guiding belt of the
printing machine
Printing process optimization
by reducing the number of
curing lamps
Compressed air leakage
identification and rectification
Provide better material
handling at the grey fabric
inward & dyeing section
Recover condensate from dyeing
machines, autoclave, bleaching
machines, washing machines,
dryers, singeing machine, sizing
machines, printers
Printing
Wet Processing
73
Process
Waste
Reduction
Efficiency
Improvement
Automation
and Control
Practice Improvement
Technology
Change or
Process Change
Without Change in the Technology
or Process
Caustic
recovery
Replacing
steam traps
in dyeing
machines
Sand filter
integration
and system
optimization
in water
softening
system
Desizing by
enzyme
instead
of using
chemicals
Steam
recovery in
sanforizing
process
Airflow (air
jet) dyeing
machines
Recovery of
caustic from
mercerizing
Utilizing
waste heat
from air
compressors
for drying
rooms
Automated
water
softening
system
Re-use
treated water
or highly
alkaline
scouring
wastewater
for boiler gas
treatment
Thermal oil
heating
instead of
natural luster
finishing
machine
heating
Use biological
detergent
(probiotic) to
remove excess
dye on cotton
fabric after
dyeing
Thermosol
IR dyeing
machine with
less water
consumption
Wet Processing
74
Process
Waste
Reduction
Efficiency
Improvement
Automation
and Control
Practice Improvement
Technology
Change or
Process Change
Without Change in the Technology
or Process
Replace dye-
cleaning
chemicals
alkaline form
+ Hydrobisulfit
with dye
cleaning
chemicals acid
form (only for
polyester
fabric)
CPB - Cold
Pad Batch
Using
bioscouring
agent to
pretreatment
of cotton
Improve
ironing boiler
feed water
temperature
with solar
power
Upgrade
the sewing
machines with
direct drive
motors
Sewing
machines
equipped servo
motors
Liquid Indigo
technology
Applying
E-flow
technology
Applying wet
ozone
technology
Wet Processing
Garmenting
75
Process
Waste
Reduction
Efficiency
Improvement
Automation
and Control
Practice Improvement
Technology
Change or
Process Change
Without Change in the Technology
or Process
Upgrading
the rewound
motors with
energy
efficient one
Optimizing
the
Compressed
Air Pressure
Distribution
Install VSD
for air
compressor,
boiler's fans
Install rainwater harvesting
systems
Energy saving reform for
LED bulbs
Optimizing
the
compressor
with variable
frequency
drive
Installation
of waste heat
recovery
systems from
effluent
Transvector
nozzle for
cleaning guns
Upgrade to
V belts
Use of water,
gas and
steam meters
Automation
of water
pretreatment
units
Waste heat
recovery in
stenter
Use regulator
valves
and loop
distribution
pipe
connection
Optimize
condensate
recovery and
insulate
condensate
tank
Use valve
float instead
of manual
valves for
automatic
condensate
discharge
Entire Supply
Chain
76
Process
Waste
Reduction
Efficiency
Improvement
Automation
and Control
Practice Improvement
Technology
Change or
Process Change
Without Change in the Technology
or Process
Use steam
traps for
each iron
Replace
centralized
boiler system
by individual
electric
boiler
Installation
of waste heat
recovery
systems from
effluent
Use direct
drive
ventilation
fans
Insulate
steam valves
& boiler
feedwater
tank
Aircon
control to
supply fresh
wind into
workshop
through CO2
signal
Entire Supply
Chain
77
Glossary of Terms
EMS
Environmental
Management
Systems
An Environmental Management System is a set of processes and
practices that enable an organization to reduce its environmental
impacts and increase its operating efficiency. The Higg Index and
ISO 14001 are examples.
ERP
Enterprise
Resource Planning
Systems
Enterprise resource planning is business process management
software that allows an organization to use a system of integrated
applications to manage the business and automate many backoffice
functions related to technology, services and human resources.
CMT
Cut, make, trim
Cut, Make, and Trim production is where an apparel factory takes
your designs and produces them following three stages. ‘Cut,’ where
the material is cut to your pattern, and made ready to sew, ‘Make,’
where the garments are sewn together and created, and
‘Trim,’ where the garments are finished, any threads and small
imperfections are removed and final QC and packing occurs.
JIT
Just-in-time
manufacturing
Just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing, also known as just-in-time
production or the Toyota Production System (TPS), is a methodology
aimed at reducing times within the production system as well as
response times from suppliers and to customers. Its origin and
development was mainly in Japan, largely in the 1960s and 1970s
and particularly at Toyota.
RFT
Right the
first time
Right-First-Time (RFT) production is a performance indicator for
garment manufacturing. Manufacturers will check garments and
measure the defective percentage in a lot and defects per hundred
units in a lot. RFT is another measure of quality performance of
a plant. By measuring RFT, a garment factory can figure out the
quality level of the production process.
Industry 4.0
Industry 4.0 is the digital transformation of manufacturing, production
and related industries and value creation processes. Industry 4.0 is
used interchangeably with the term ‘fourth industrial
revolution’ and represents a new stage in the organization and control
of the industrial value chain.
78
SDG
Sustainable
Development
Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were formulated at the
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de
Janeiro in 2012. The SDGs replace the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). Like the MDGs, the SDGs set targets for a global effort to
eliminate poverty. There are 17 SDGs.
Goal 1: No Poverty
Goal 2: Zero Hunger
Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being
Goal 4: Quality Education
Goal 5: Gender Equality
Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation
Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy
Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Goal 10: Reduced Inequality
Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities
Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production
Goal 13: Climate Action
Goal 14: Life Below Water
Goal 15: Life on Land
Goal 16: Peace and Justice Strong Institutions
Goal 17: Partnerships to achieve the Goal
Green
supply chain
Green Supply Chain Management integrates environments
concerns into conventional supply chain management practices.
Environmental concerns are considered at every link in the chain:
designing, procurement, processes, final product delivery, and end-
of-life product management.
Circular
economy
A circular economy is an alternative to a traditional linear economy
(make, use, dispose) in which we keep resources in use for as long
as possible, extract the maximum value from them whilst in use,
then recover and re-use parts or materials at the end of
each service life.
LCA
Life cycle
assessment
Life cycle assessment is a cradle-to-grave or cradle-to-cradle analysis
technique to assess environmental impacts associated with all the
stages of a product's life, from raw material extraction through
materials processing, manufacture, distribution, and use. vietnam.panda.org
© 2020
© 1986 Panda symbol WWF – World Wide Fund for Nature (Formerly World Wildlife Fund)
® “WWF” is a WWF Registered Trademark. WWF, Avenue du Mont-Bland,
1196 Gland, Switzerland. Tel. +41 22 364 9111. Fax. +41 22 364 0332.
For contact details and further information, please visit vietnam.panda.org
© David Woodfall / WWF-UK
121289