Prepared by MCG Management Consulting December 2018 For further information, please contact:  Ms. Shannon Siyao Wang, WWF Greater Mekong,
shannon.siyaowang@wwfgreatermekong.org
 Mr. Viet Hoang, WWF Vietnam, viet.hoang@wwf.org.vn MAPPING EXISTING POLICIES, INITIATIVES,
STAKEHOLDERS AND GAPS TO SUPPORT
TEXTILE SECTOR WITH SUSTAINABILITY
TRANSITION IN VIETNAM
REPORT ON KEY FINDINGS Table of Content Background 3
1.
POLICY review 3
2.
Existing initiatives review 5
3.
Textile sector stakeholder map 8
4.
SMEs in the textile sector in Vietnam 10
5.
Conclusions on opportunities and potentials for WWF textile 11
6. 3 BACKGROUND
1.
Textile industry is one of the key economic drivers in Vietnam as the textile and garment
export valued at USD 31 billion in 2017, increased at 10.23% compared to 2016 figures1; and is
expected to reach USD 34 billion by the end of 20182.  The sector is a heavy energy and water
user/polluter while remains weak in waste treatment. Normally, textile manufacturing
consumes a significant amount of energy for machinery operation and great volume of
domestic water for water boiling and wet processing that poses high risks to the environment
such as discharging polluted wastewater from chemical dying. In pace with socio-economic
growth, the textile industry is highly motivated to transform its existing branding of being “low
cost and low environmental standard ‘Made in Vietnam’” to “sustainably ‘Made in Vietnam’” to
attract further foreign investments and to gain a competitive business edge.
The project “Greening Vietnam’s textile sector through improving water management and
energy sustainability” of WWF was developed to transform the textile sector in Vietnam and
engage sectoral and environmental governance in order to bring social, economic and
conservation benefits to the country and the entire Mekong region. This mapping exercise is one of the first activities of the “Greening Vietnam’s Textile Sector”
project. WWF contracted MCG Management Consulting (MCG) to undertake the following
tasks:
-
Review and map out policy landscape in the textile sector,
-
Stock take all existing initiatives led by international organizations, bilateral /
multilateral donors, NGOs and brands supporting textile sector,
-
Map out all relevant stakeholders the WWF textile project needs to engage with in
Vietnam, and
-
Zoom into the SMEs in the textile sector in Vietnam, in particular in the Mekong Delta
area and HCMC.
The report presents key findings of the above tasks. POLICY REVIEW
2.
The section maps out policy landscape in the textile sector through reviewing all existing and
planned national, sector and local level plans, policies, strategies and regulations of the textile
sector development in Vietnam, with a specific attention to water, energy, climate. The
following figure illustrates major policies that have certain impacts on the textile sector of
Vietnam (see annex A for more detail). 1 Stated by Mr. Cao Quoc Hung, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade in the “Vietnam Textile
Conference 2017” held by VITAS on 15/12/2017 in Danang. https://congthuong.vn/nam-2017-kim-
ngach-xuat-khau-det-may-cua-viet-nam-dat-31-ty-usd-97417.html 2  Apparel
Resources,
2018.
An
Overview
of
Vietnam
Textile
and
Garment
Industry.
https://www.slideshare.net/apparelresources/vietnam-textile-and-garment-industry-97397255 4
Figure 1: Summary of main textile related policies Source: compiled by MCG Consultant team, 2018
Water and energy issues of Vietnam textile sector are covered in three main laws: Law on
Economical and Efficient Use of Energy (2010), Law on Environment Protection (2014), and Law
on Water Resources (2012). At national level, the Government has issued a series of
regulations on environmental protection, which requires factories to comply with from the
project development to factory operation stage. During project development stage,
depending on the size and type of the project, companies are required to apply for business
permits after submitting environmental impact assessment. During operation phase factories
must comply with environmental protection commitments through periodic or continuous
monitoring reporting system according to Decree 18/2015/ND-CP on strategic environmental
assessment, environmental impact assessment and environmental protection plan, Decree No.
80/2014/ND-CP on the drainage and treatment of wastewater. Companies which fail to
comply with those regulations on environmental protection will be punished according to the
Decree No. 155/2016/ND-CP.
At sector level, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE) has stipulated
QCVN 13-MT: 2015/BTNMT National technical regulation on the maximum allowable values of
pollutants in textile wastewater.
The Prime Minister of Viet Nam has issued a strategy on Development of Vietnam Textile and
Garment Industry 2015-2020 (Decision No. 36/2008/QD-TTg). As a follow up action, the
Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT) has launched a Master Plan for Vietnam Textile
Industrial Development 2020-2030 (Decision No. 3128/QD-BCT). Both of the Master plan and
Strategy set an objective to develop textile and garment into a key and spearhead export
industry, increasingly meet domestic consumption demands, create many jobs for the society,
and raise the industry’s competitiveness as well as steady integration into regional and world
economies. However, many targets in this Master Plan are out of date, therefore VITAS has
been proposing a new strategy to replace the current master plan and current strategy. 5
Besides, the Prime Minister has recently approved the national program on development of
supporting industries during 2016-2025 (Decision No. 68/QD-TTg) which sets some specific
target for textile, garment and leather, footwear industries. Until the updated strategy for
textile and apparel development is in place, this national program will be guiding the sector
development.
At provincial level, some provinces have developed their own plans for the Textile and
Garment Industry, such as Ho Chi Minh city, Thua Thien Hue province. These provincial plans
are adopted from the goals of the government’s strategy and the MOIT’s master plan. In conclusion, the legal framework developed for Vietnam textile industry in terms of
environment, water, energy and climate performances is fairly comprehensive. Still, there are
few existing gaps that need to be addressed: (1) to develop a new strategy replacing the
Master plan and current Strategy3; and (2) to adopt international technical standards into
national technical regulations/ guidelines EXISTING INITIATIVES REVIEW
3.
This section summarizes 15 initiatives supporting directly and indirectly the textile sector to
improve water, energy and climate performances led by international organizations, bilateral/
multilateral donors, NGOs and brands over the past 15 years. The Figure 2 shows the timeline
of these initiatives (see annex B for more detail). Figure 2: Initiatives in textile sector Source: compiled by MCG Consultant team, 2018 3 With the new Law on Planning, it is unknown whether the MOIT or the Government office will approve
the new strategy 6
The period before 2015 saw some initiatives driving broader industrial sector towards cleaner
production, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, promoting energy efficiency in order to cope
with climate change. The World Bank (WB) and Asian Development Bank (ADB), United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO), together with Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund, Nordic
Development Fund and Green Credit Fund had led these initiatives. The budget for these
initiatives ranges from over USD 4 million to more than USD 150 million, including grants,
counterpart funds from implementing agencies, and Vietnamese Government loans.  The key
initiatives are:
-
Promoting Industrial Energy Efficiency through System Optimization and Energy
Management Standards, 2010 – 2015, by UNIDO-GEF Trust Fund, total project cost is
USD 6.59 million
-
Clean Production and Energy Efficiency Project, 2011-2017, by WB-GEF Trust fund and
Vietnamese Government loans, total project cost is USD 4.15 million
-
Vietnam Industrial Pollution Management project, 2012-2018, WB and Vietnamese
Government loans, total project cost is USD 58.85 million
-
Promotion of Energy Efficient Industrial Boiler Adoption and Operating Practices in
Vietnam, 2015 – 2019 by UNIDO-GEF Trust Fund, total project cost is USD 12.11 million -
Implementation of Eco-industrial Park Initiative for Sustainable Industrial zones in
Vietnam, 2014- 2019, by UNIDO-GEF Trust Fund and Green Credit Fund, total project
cost is USD 53.23 million
-
Vietnam Energy Efficiency for Industrial Enterprises, 2017 – 2022, WB, total project cost:
USD 158.00 million
The international organisations such as IFC, GIZ, USAID have been leading technical programs
facilitating energy efficiency and water consumption in textile companies towards sustainable
production more recently. The textile and apparel sector also welcomed the participation of
international textile and garment brands such as VF Corporation, Target Corporation, PUMA,
New Balance, Adidas, and Levi Strauss & Co alongside traditional donors. These technical
initiatives are  under USD 10 million and mostly supporting the industry through technical
assistance, and/or investment in equipment and technology. The highlight programs are:
-
Race to the Top apparel and footwear sectors in Vietnam, implemented by IDH, 2015-
2020 -
Vietnam Improvement Program, 2015-2020, implemented by IFC, USD 9.9 million
-
Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions
- Support to Vietnam for the
Implementation of the Paris Agreement, 2016-2019, implemented by GIZ
-
Improving energy efficiency investments in Vietnam’s textile and garment plants, 2013
– 2018, implemented by USAID
Figure 3 reveals the main stakeholders and beneficiaries of the initiatives. At the country level,
the bilateral/ multilateral donor partner working with MONRE, MOIT, and MPI in developing
and adopting national policies to implement energy efficiency, environmental protection to
implement the government's commitment to climate change response. Key activities for these
stakeholders include policy researches, organising public-private dialogues, technical
standards development (WB, UNDP, USAID, ADB). 7
At provincial level, bilateral/multilateral donors through international organizations (IFC, GIZ,
IHD) support managing agencies at provincial level (Provincial People's Committees, specialized
departments, provincial Industrial Park management units) to implement pilot activities, raise
awareness among stakeholders and promote the implementation of policies and regulations.
At sector level, business associations (such as Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association - VITAS,
LEFASO, Vietnam Cotton and Spinning Association – VCOSA) and textile and garment
companies in tier 1 and 2 who are international brands’ suppliers are main beneficiaries of
many technical support programs led by IDH, GIZ, IFC.  Some typical activities of technical
assistance projects are:
-
Training & workshop on energy efficiency and energy management: providing full
financial support to all participants
-
Technical support in water and energy saving, chemicals reduction, environmental
protection: Full or partial financing for companies in tier 1, and some companies in tier
2
-
Investment in EE equipment and technology, wastewater solutions: partial funding, or
providing preferential loans for companies in tier 1
Figure 3: Existing initiatives by value chain Source: compiled by MCG Consultant team, 2018
From our observation, there is a lack of support for companies in tier 3 and 4 in the country,
which can be explained by their relative small size and uncertainty in measuring the level of
impacts. Support for adoption of international standards into environmental regulations for
the textile industry in Vietnam has only just started recently. 8 TEXTILE SECTOR STAKEHOLDER MAP
4.
From the above analysis, the stakeholder map (below) helps to identify and visualize the actors
who are relevant for WWF’s Greening Vietnam’s Textile Sector project. The results of the
stakeholder analysis will support WWF to decide partners and targeted stakeholder groups in
its project implementation to achieve its project goals. The map is structured like an onion into
different layers of stakeholders (key, primary, secondary) and different segments by their
nature (public, private, civil society).
In Figure 4, the different organizations (stakeholders) hold diverse positions of importance and
relevance for WWF textile in Vietnam: Figure 4: Textile sector stakeholder map Source: compiled by MCG Consultant team, 2018 9
Table 1.
International brands and related initiatives in Vietnam
#
Textile and Garment
international brands
Involved initiatives in Vietnam
1. GAP
 IDH - Race to the Top (RttT)
2. Levi Strauss & Co
 IDH - Race to the Top (RttT)
 IFC - Vietnam Improvement Program (VIP)
3. Marks & Spencer
 IDH - Race to the Top (RttT)
4. Nike
 IDH - Race to the Top (RttT)
5. Puma
 IDH - Race to the Top (RttT)
 IFC - Vietnam Improvement Program (VIP)
6. Saitex
 IDH - Race to the Top (RttT)
7. VF Corporation (VFC)
 IFC - Vietnam Improvement Program (VIP)
8. New Balance
 IFC - Vietnam Improvement Program (VIP)
9. Adidas
 IFC - Vietnam Improvement Program (VIP) Source: compiled by MCG Consultant team, 2018
“Key Stakeholders” are those with significant influence on textile sector, as they are able to
use their resources, competence, mandate or position of power to exert significant influence.
WWF will need to engage these key stakeholders to ensure its textile project’s objectives and
strategic orientation can be achieved. WWF should actively seek cooperation with the key
stakeholders in order to reach its objectives. Depending on the type of cooperation measures,
key stakeholders need to be selected carefully to make implementation more effective and
efficient or even succeed at all. Primary Stakeholders are those directly affect, either positively or negatively on textile sector
either as subcontractors, cooperation partners or designated beneficiaries, or because they
stand to gain – or lose – power and privilege, or because they are negatively or positively
affected by a strategy change of WWF’s textile project in some other way. A regular exchange
with primary stakeholders or representative groups of them is therefore advisable
Secondary Stakeholders, the "intermediaries “, are persons or organizations who have
indirectly influence on textile sector. Selectively, cooperation with secondary stakeholders
could create synergies and mutual benefit, as some future activities of WWF’s textile project
might need their support but would also help them to reach their own project or
organizational objectives.
The stakeholder map should be considered as a living document that needs to be updated
regularly to remain relevant for WWF’s project regarding selection of cooperation partners,
clients or sub-contractors. Over time, organizations can change their status, can become more
or less relevant for WWF Textile, disappear or newly appear in the map. Therefore, an annual
internal discussion on stakeholders relevant for WWF Textile and a subsequent adjustment of
the map is highly advisable. 10 SMES IN THE TEXTILE SECTOR IN VIETNAM
5.
According to the VITAS’s report in 2018, Vietnam garment and textile industry has 7154
enterprises, of which about 15% weaving and dyeing enterprises locate in Mekong Delta and
Southeast area. The Figure 5 presents an overview of the textile and garment enterprise
distribution along the textile value chain, and in the  Mekong Delta and Southeast area
(including HCMC). Figure 5: The textile and garment enterprise distribution Source: VITAS (2016), VCOSA (2016) and Number of companies in Mekong Delta and Southeast
area calculated by MCG Consultant team
The below table summarizes the characteristics of four types of textile and garment companies
in Vietnam. Main characteristics
Tier 1 Companies
-
Direct supply to big brands (such as Nike, Adidas, GAP, etc.)
-
Large-sized enterprises (>300 to thousands of employees)
-
Received foreign investment
-
Active in Energy Efficiency
Tier 2 Companies
-
Subcontract to big brands
-
Large to medium-sized enterprises -
Mostly Vietnamese companies
-
VITAS’s members
Tier 3 Companies
-
Medium to small-sized enterprises (<200 employees)
-
Vietnamese companies
-
VITAS’s members 11
Tier 4 Companies
-
Small to micro-sized enterprises
-
Private business/ business households (<100 labors)
-
Washing and dyeing workshops
-
Not VITAS’s members CONCLUSIONS ON OPPORTUNITIES AND POTENTIALS FOR
6.
WWF’S PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
After reviewing policy and existing initiatives on the textile sector development, and looking
into textile SMEs in Vietnam, the following conclusions can be drawn:
VITAS and the MOIT are preparing to revise the out-of-date Strategy and Master Plan on
Development of Vietnam Textile and Garment Industry. This would be a good opportunity for
WWF project team to make recommendations on greening the textile industry in the new
strategy/ program of Vietnam Textile and Garment Industry. Energy saving and use of
chemicals in the textile sector of Vietnam need more attention, in particular if fiber and fabric
production development will become more crucial for Vietnam to be eligible under various
free trade agreements . WWF project team should work with the MOIT as the lead agency,
VITAS as representative of the textile industry and other interested parties including GIZ,
USAID, and WB. Vietnam still needs to upgrade the national standard for textile waste water, develop technical
standards for energy consumption, and chemicals usage in the textile industry. WWF can work
with IHD, USAID, and WB/IFC to support Vietnamese specialized agencies (MONRE, DOT) in
this regard.
Overall, SMEs are involved in weaving and dyeing in the Mekong Delta area and Ho Chi Minh
City accounts for a small percentage, about 100 enterprises. Long An, Tien Giang and Can Tho
province are favorite locations for many textile SMEs to operate. Most of them are small and
micro-sized business, usually suppliers/ sub-contractor of large companies, and less interested
by supporting projects/ programs. Directly supporting those SMEs to increase technical
capacity and access finance can be a good idea, but WWF needs further research and analysis
on the level of commitment to the project and SME’s ability to absorb technology. At the local
level, WWF’s textile project can work with local agencies such as Provincial People's
Committees, or the management of industrial zones to access those textile companies.