VieImam's garment-textle Iindustry sutching a ereener,
Smarter future
Supported by 17 next-generation free trade agreements (FTAs) already in effect, the industry is poised for further growth, targeting
48 billion USD in export revenue this yecr.
30/03/2025 09:5ó
A gorment fgctory ín Dong Nơi province (Photo: VNA)
Hanoi (VNA) - Vietnam, the worlds second largest garment-textile exporter,
1s betting on green fabric to cement 1ts place in the global supply chain.
According to Chairman of the Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association
(VITAS) Vu Duc Giang, many Vietnamese enterprises are already weaving
eco-friendly materials like organic cotton, recycled polyester, and Tencel.
This aligns with global trend as major global brands operating In Vietnam
have committed to achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 under the
Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action.
Beyond sustainability, the sector 1S harnessing advanced technology in
design and production. Investors are working to optimise production
capacity, sưreamline supply chains, and improve product quality to stay
competitve in both domestic and global markets.
Between now and 2030, the focus will gradually shift #rom rapid growth to a
sustainability-driven, circular business model. By 2031-2035, the goal 1s to
fully integrate Vietnam into a circular economy, strengthen its domestic
value chain, and secure a high-value position In the global supply chain.
To such end, Vietnam is investing in sci-tech, upskilling the workforce, and
developing hi-tech textile and dyeing projects in industrial zones. Plans also
include expanding the production of natural, eco-friendly materials,
accelerating digital transformation, and building a robust fashion ecosystem
with globally and regionally recognised brands.
With over 7,000 apparel companies employing more than three million
WOTkers, Vietnam's garment-textile industry 1s a true powerhouse. Up to 80%
0f its production capacity is dedicated to exports, while the remainder serves
domestic consumption. Last year alone, Vietnam's apparel exports reached
nearly 44 billion USD, up 11.26% annually. This achievement solidifies
Vietnams position as the worlds second largest garment-textile exporter,
behind only China.
Supported by 17 next-generation free trade agreements (FTAs) already in
effect, the industry is poised for further growth, targeting 48 billion USD in
export revenue this year./.
VNA