Strengthening
Sustainability
in the Textile Industry
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 2
About IFC
IFC is the largest global development institution
focused on the private sector in emerging markets. We work in more than 100 countries,
using our capital, expertise, and influence to create markets and opportunities in
developing countries.
In fiscal year 2022, IFC committed a record $32.8 billion to private companies and financial
institutions in developing countries, leveraging the power of the private sector to end
extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity as economies grapple with the impacts of
global compounding crises. For more information, visit www.ifc.org.
Authors
This report was authored by Vally Khamisani and Heikki Mattila with additional support from Jeremy Levin. In addition, we received input from Rachel Williamson, Lilian Tu, Eleonore Richardson, Joy Biswas, Rowshan Tamanna, Sabine Hertveldt, Andrey Gurevich,
Diane Davoine, and Sanola Daley.
Acknowledgments
Thanks also to Leticia Crentsil, Gary Seidman, and Kathy Chen for their involvement in
producing this series. Mashudah Mirza, IFC consultant, managed the design process, and
Aliza Marcus, IFC Senior Communications Officer, assisted in the preparation and finalization.
Disclaimer
The findings, interpretations, views, and conclusions expressed herein are those of the
author and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Executive Directors of IFC or of the
World Bank or the governments they represent. While IFC believes that the information
provided is accurate, the information is provided on a strictly “as-is” basis, without assurance
or representation of any kind. IFC may not require all or any of the described practices in its
own investments, and in its sole discretion may not agree to finance or assist companies or
projects that adhere to those practices. Any such practices or proposed practices would be
evaluated by IFC on a case-by-case basis with due regard for the particular circumstances of the project.
Rights and Permissions
© International Finance Corporation 2023. All rights reserved. The material in this work is
copyrighted. Copying and/or transmitting portions or all of this work without permission
may be a violation of applicable law.
Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
3
Growing global concerns over climate
change are putting an increasing focus
on sustainability. This report is part of an
occasional series on sustainability in industry
which examines the opportunities and
challenges facing various industrial sectors
and the role that the International Finance
Corporation can play to support their efforts
and contribute to a greener planet.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 4
Strengthening Sustainability in the Fertilizer Industry
Everybody needs clothes and every
year some 100 billion garments
are manufactured.1 Thus it is no
surprise that fashion is one of
the world’s biggest industries,2
generating revenues in excess of $1.7
trillion,3 employing tens of millions
of people, and spewing billions of
tons of greenhouse gases into the
atmosphere.4
The environmental costs from
the manufacturing of textiles and
apparel—everything from the
consumption of water to irrigate
cotton to the burning of fossil fuels to
power factories—are immense. In its
lifecycle, a single pair of denim jeans
will use 1,000 gallons of water to
grow the cotton, manufacture
the material, ship the garment, and
launder after wear.5
Today, the combined textile and
apparel sectors contribute as much
as 8–10% of global greenhouse gas
emissions.6 If the industry’s emissions
continue on the same trajectory, it will
be impossible for the world to meet
the goals of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change.7 Quick and substantive action is
needed. Water conservation, energy
decarbonization, and implementation
of responsible waste management
practices will require collaboration
with policy makers, financial
institutions such as the International
Clothing is one of the
fundamental necessities for
physical well-being. Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
5
Finance Corporation (IFC), and
the consumers who purchase and
ultimately dispose of the clothes they wear.
World’s Largest Apparel Companies, by Market Capitalization
France
France
United States
United States
Spain
Source: CompaniesMarketcap.com.
Sector Background
Textile and apparel manufacturing
has driven economic development
and technological advancement
for 250 years, helping to launch the
first Industrial Revolution in the 18th
century. Ever since, the industry has
been putting developing economies
on a fast track to becoming middle-
and high-income countries by creating
jobs, accelerating their technological
know-how, and expanding their
access to global trade. The four Asian
Tigers—South Korea, Singapore,
Taiwan, and Hong Kong, with modern
economies barely 50 years old—
now rank among the world’s most
industrialized countries after getting
their start in textile and apparel
manufacturing.
The industry has also helped to
elevate other countries, most notably
China, which emerged as the world’s
leading apparel manufacturer in the
last two decades, driven by its export-
oriented policies, economic reforms,
cheap labor, and rapid expansion of its
manufacturing base. Today, “Chinese-
made” accounts for more than half
of global apparel production, though INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 6
countries with lower-cost workers are
increasing their share.8 The European
Union ranks second after China,
followed by Bangladesh, where the
industry provides four million jobs
and accounts for four-fifths of the
country’s total exports.9
In terms of consumer markets,
China, the United States, the United
Kingdom, Germany, and Japan are
the five biggest for apparel, while
European and U.S. firms top the list of
the world's biggest apparel companies
by market capitalization.10
Global apparel sales experienced
a sharp decline in 2020 due to the
impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic,
but the industry has since bounced
back. According to the Lenzing Group,
an Austrian-based fiber producer,
global demographics—particularly
an expected 60% increase in the
number of middle-class households
over the next two decades—“support
a further growth in per capita fiber
consumption.”11
The industry’s dramatic expansion has
come at a cost to the environment.
Textiles account for 9% of microplastic
discharge into oceans,12 and the
manufacturing process releases about
1.7 billion tonnes of greenhouse gas
emissions annually.13
In addition, the fashion industry is
notoriously thirsty, using 93 billion
cubic meters of water each year,
enough to meet the consumption
needs of five million people.14 Water
goes toward growing cotton, dyeing
and treating textiles, and washing
12.90% estimated
compounded annual growth
2029
US$1.87
billion (est.)
2021
US$993.80
million
Source: Data Bridge Market Research 2022.
Global Textile Market Projected Growth
Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
7
clothes; many of these activities also
contribute to water pollution.
Plastic-based synthetics currently
make up about 63% of the more
than 50 million metric tons of fiber
produced annually to make clothes.15
Most of these fibers are made from
polymers derived from coal, oil, or
natural gas.16 Cellulose-based fibers—
both natural, such as cotton, linen,
and jute, and semisynthetic manmade
cellulose fibers, including rayon and
viscose—are used to make about 33%
of clothes.17 The share of manmade
cellulose fibers is expected to grow,
but not that of cotton.
The textile and apparel value chain is
driven by the global brands and retail
chains which contract production
out to multiple levels of suppliers in
developing countries. These suppliers
exhibit wide variation in efficiency,
capacity, and approach in terms of
managing sustainability and social
issues. The global brands and retail
chains can play a key role in making
the supply chain sustainable by
requesting manufacturers to comply
with existing laws and by supporting
suppliers to achieve more efficient,
environmentally friendly production.
Sustainability
In 2021, many leading fashion
stakeholders including the IFC
launched the Fashion Industry Charter
for Climate Action under the auspices
of the United Nations Climate Change,
with a goal of getting the textile and
apparel industry to reach net zero
emissions by 2050.18 The European
Union is requiring the industry
to attain circularity by 2030, and
consumers, investors, and corporate
boards are also increasing pressure on
garment companies.
Recognizing the importance of this
issue, many leading brands have
pledged to become more transparent
about their products’ environmental
and social impact and have adopted
ambitious emissions-reduction and
other targets. Levi Strauss & Co.,which
produces the eponymous blue jeans,
has pledged to achieve a 40% absolute
reduction in supply chain (Scope 3)
emissions by 2025, in part by working
with key suppliers to create roadmaps
and identify solutions for reducing INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 8
their climate and water impacts.19
The company is sourcing from less
thirsty cotton and adopting dyeing
and production processes that use less
water and fewer harmful chemicals.20
Luxury group Kering has launched
pilots focused on regenerative
agriculture21 and supported two dozen
mill suppliers to improve their water
and energy efficiency.22
Larger suppliers to the global brands
are taking the initiative to make
changes too. In Bangladesh, DBL
Group's Hamza Textiles Ltd—a key
supplier to PUMA, Inditex, C&A, and
others—has installed solar systems,
ramped up wastewater treatment,
and incorporated energy-efficient
machinery. IFC recently invested $22
million in the company. The financing
will help pay for more resource-
efficient technologies, allowing
Hamza Textiles to sustainably expand
its dyeing and finishing capacity and
create more than 900 new jobs.
Even as the pandemic dampened
demand and disrupted supply
chains, it has encouraged brands to
near-shore to reduce dependence
on Chinese suppliers and address
supply chain vulnerabilities.23 This
trend of bringing production closer
to consumer markets has helped to
lower transport-related emissions
while providing opportunities
for factories in countries such as
Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, and Jordan
(supplying European brands) and
Central America (supplying North
America) to invest in more energy-
and water-efficient production lines.
Travel restrictions implemented
during the pandemic, meanwhile,
popularized the use of 3D digital
design. Broad adoption of this
technology is reducing emissions
generated by travel and the volume of
waste fabrics from multiple rounds of
sample sewing.
In Asia, suppliers in Vietnam and Sri Lanka have benefited from low-
cost labor forces and an emphasis on
sustainable production practices to
draw some global brands away from
China, where costs are higher and
facilities tend to be older and less efficient.
Other countries are seeking
to integrate and shorten their Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
9
textile and apparel supply chains.
Garment-producing countries such
as Bangladesh, which previously
imported its fabrics from China and
elsewhere, are branching out into
fabric and yarn manufacturing, while
cotton-producing countries are
starting to make yarns, fabric, and
garments. Shortening the supply
chain can reduce transport-related
emissions and also help strengthen
accountability and transparency, two factors that contribute to
responsible production.
BOX I:
Morocco Case Study
Situated on Europe’s doorstep, Morocco's textile and apparel exporters
are poised to benefit from their country's embrace of a green agenda
that emphasizes circular economy production principles. IFC is working
with Moroccan textile manufacturer Reciclados Tanger to finance and
develop an integrated mill that uses postindustrial and postconsumer
textile waste as a raw material.
The program compliments the sustainability efforts being undertaken
in Europe, one of the world's largest consumer markets and Morocco’s
chief export destination. The EU’s Green Deal aims to make “almost all
physical goods on the EU market more friendly to the environment,
circular, and energy efficient”a and stipulates that by 2030, “all
textile products placed on the EU market are durable, repairable and
recyclable, to a great extent made of recycled fibers.”b
IFC believes Morocco is in a unique position to sustainably grow its
textile and apparel sector by backwardly integrating its manufacturing
facilities to use more recycled materials while introducing more complex
production processes that open the door to global value chains.
----------------------------
a. European Commission 2022.
b. European Commission n.d.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 10
Challenges & Opportunities
The textile and apparel industry
arguably faces a complicated path to
achieving net zero goals. Long and
complex supply chains make it difficult
for global brands to enforce, or even
monitor, manufacturing processes
for sustainability, especially among
smaller suppliers.
Another challenge centers around the
critical role that retailers and consumers
play in the waste and recycling part
of the cycle. Fast fashion is a major
contributor to the estimated 92 billion
tonnes of garments that end up in
landfills each year, and Americans alone
discard an average of 81.5 pounds of
clothes each per year.24
Shifting such behavior will be essential
to achieving a circular economy in the
industry, but companies must also
change the manufacturing process,
which accounts for the largest share
of water use and pollution and of
greenhouse gas emissions. Regulatory
support can help the industry
strengthen sustainability, but primarily
it will be up to the brands that drive
the supply chain.
9
8
7
5
6
4
3
2
1
0
100
90
80
60
70
50
40
30
20
10
0
1970
1975
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
Fiber Production (million tonnes per year)
World Population (billions)
Cotton
Polyester
Non-cotton cellulosics
Polyamide
Population
Polypropylene
Other
Source: researchgate.net.
Growth in Global Population and Textile Production by Fiber Type (1970-2015)
Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
11
Water and Environment
Water use and pollution rank among
the industry’s biggest challenges, with
about one-fifth of the wastewater
worldwide originating from fabric
dyeing and treatment.25 Industry
organization ZDHC26 has helped to
establish minimum standards aimed
at reducing chemical pollution, and
more than two-thirds of fashion
companies are members.27 A small but growing number of
companies are looking to set targets
to align their water management
strategies with local conditions.
Technologies exist that can help
reduce water use and pollution; for
example, water in the dyeing process
can be fully recycled. But these
innovations require big investments,
limiting adoption to major players
with large capacity. Industrial
parks with centralized wastewater
treatment offer a potential solution
for smaller players. To reduce the
amount of water used to wash
clothes, some brands are striving to
change consumer behavior.
Emissions
The fashion industry’s current share of
global emissions is on par with those of
leading hard-to-abate heavy industries.
At its current rate of expansion, the
industry’s total greenhouse gas
emissions are projected to surge by
more than 50% by 2030.28 Production
processes are estimated to account
for 70% of these emissions.29 Fabric
production requires the most energy
and, with coal serving as the primary
source for generating steam needed
to dye and print fabrics, emits a large
part of these greenhouse gases.
Alternative energy sources are
available, and more advanced
companies have switched to lower
carbon fuels such as natural gas,
increased use of photovoltaics, and
even biomass. The adoption of solar
panels is becoming a mainstream
solution for larger suppliers and
manufacturers, such as Turkey-based
Sanko Textile, which is partnering with
IFC to increase its solar panel capacity.
Reducing emissions will be more
challenging for the countless smaller
suppliers that are not directly
in contact with export markets.
Currently, an estimated 40% of the INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 12
industry’s CO2 is generated by Tier 2
suppliers that manufacture textiles.30
Downstream activities also generate
emissions, whether at the retail and
consumer levels or at the end-of-life
stage.31 Cutting back on washing and
drying by consumers could deliver
186 million tonnes of carbon emission
reductions
but this will require brands and retailers
to provide better care instructions
and more sustainable fabrics. Some
executives are leading by example:
Levi’s CEO shared that he hadn’t
washed his jeans in over a year.32
Materials
Current fibers (cotton, synthetics,
and cellulosic fibers) all have varying
negative impacts on the environment.
The industry can alleviate these
by adopting new techniques
and technologies, from applying
microirrigation and growing organic
for cotton production to replacing
fossil fuel-based synthetics with
recycled polyethylene terephthalate
(PET) or biobased or biodegradable
synthetics, such as those made
from starch.33 Cost remains an issue,
but wider adoption and economies
of scale should make innovative
materials more affordable.
Source: Lenzing Group.
Higg Materials Sustainability Index
Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
13
Source: Ellen MacArthur Foundation 2017.
Circular Cycle of Textiles
Lenzing predicts that manmade fibers
will constitute nearly the entirety of
future fiber demand, and that wood-
based cellulosic fibers especially
will benefit from the sustainability
trend. Based on the Higg Materials
Sustainability Index, wood-based
fabrics such as TENCEL™ exact a
significantly lesser toll on climate,
water, and soil than natural fabrics
such as cotton and wool.34
Waste and Circularity
Overproduction and fast fashion have
contributed to a major waste problem
for the industry. Currently, less than
1% of textile waste is recycled into
new fibers for clothing, translating
into more than $100 billion in lost
material annually.35 Use of 3D in
design, online marketing, and virtual
try on can help alleviate waste. New
retail models, such as fashion rental INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 14
platforms and clothes made to last,
increasingly offer more sustainable
options to environmental-minded
consumers.
The most impactful solution will be
converting the industry to a circular
economy. Fully scaled, existing
recycling technologies could deliver
75% “textile-to-textile recycling”
back into the system and 5% recycled
feedstock from other industries.36
Under the Circular Fashion Partnership
led by Global Fashion Agenda, a pilot
program brought together brands,
manufacturers, and recyclers in
Bangladesh to capture and recycle
postindustrial textile waste.
McKinsey estimates scaling this model
in six major textile-manufacturing
countries (Vietnam, Turkey, India,
Malaysia, Indonesia, and Bangladesh)
could comprise a $4.5 billion market. To overhaul the sector globally would
require at least $5 billion to $7 billion
in capital investments in recycling
technologies by 2026, along with
investments in collection and sorting
infrastructure.37
IFC Role
IFC has a long record of investing in
the textile and apparel industry to
increase countries’ competitiveness,
promote sustainable performance
standards, and encourage social and
workplace advances. Its approach
to the sector includes: (i) laying the
foundation for industrial production
of textiles and apparel; (ii) expanding
and diversifying the textile and
apparel manufacturing base; and (iii)
supporting more complex textile and
apparel manufacturing.
As a partner with deep roots in the
industry, IFC has helped improve the
efficiency of plants and worked with
companies to transition to renewable
energy, improve effluent waste
management, and conserve resources
such as water.
IFC also has a number of specific
programs that can help global
companies promote sustainable
manufacturing among their suppliers
and reduce their Scope 3 emissions.
Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
15
BOX II: IFC Textile and
Apparel Total Financing
Commitments
Total financing commitments by
IFC in Textile and Apparel in the
last 10 fiscal years amounted to
approximately $10 billion, including long-term and short-
term financing.
Global Trade Supplier Finance Program (GTSF)
Launched in 2012, GTSF is a US$1
billion facility that provides financing
to suppliers that sell products to
corporations, and facilitates suppliers’
access to competitive financing
solutions. The program disbursed
more than US$2.27 billion to 352
suppliers in fiscal year 2022, with more than two-thirds of the financing going to the world’s poorest
developing countries.
GTSF improves the sustainability
of supply chains by offering
sustainability-linked pricing, which
connects receivable discount
rates to suppliers’ environmental
and social performance; such
arrangements accounted for 66%
of all disbursements in fiscal 2022.
The program also provides direct
advisory services to suppliers aimed
at improving labor standards,
environmental and social
performance, and gender inclusion,
and supports the development
of supply chain decarbonization
programs. GTSF has been working
with a number of global apparel
brands, such as Nike, Ralph Lauren,
and Under Armour.
Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT)
This long-running IFC advisory
program seeks to bring systemic,
positive change to the textile
value chain in Bangladesh by
contributing to the sector’s long-
term competitiveness and improved
sustainability. IFC has worked with
more than 414 textile factories in
Bangladesh to help them identify
and implement cleaner production
solutions such as improved energy
efficiency, water-use reduction, and INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 16
increased use of renewables.
The program has generated annual
cost savings exceeding $100 million
for participants, reduced water
usage by about 30 billion liters a year
(enough to meet the annual water
needs of almost a million people
in Bangladesh), and cut more than
670,000 tons of carbon emissions
equivalent per year (equal to removing more than 100,000 cars
from the road). IFC has partnered
with multiple brands in Bangladesh,
including Gap Inc., Levi Strauss, VF
Corporation, and Puma.
IFC has expanded the PaCT approach
pioneered in Bangladesh to its work
with other global brands and their
suppliers, helping to identify, assess,
and implement decarbonization
solutions for suppliers in Asia, Africa,
Europe, and Latin America.
IFC-ILO Better Work Program
This partnership between IFC and the United Nations’ International
Labour Organization (ILO)
brings diverse groups together—
governments, global brands and
retailers, factories, and unions and
workers—to improve working
conditions and competitiveness in
apparel value chains. The Better Work Program is engaged
with more than 50 global brands
and retailers as partners, and more
than 2,000 apparel supplier factories,
reaching 2.5 million workers across 12
countries. At the factory level, Better
Work provides labor assessments,
training, and advisory services.
Gender Equality and Returns (GEAR)
GEAR is a training program that
helps female workers progress and
excel in managerial roles, increasing
gender diversity at the management
level. Partnering with leading apparel
brands such as H&M and Marks &
Spencer, the program has trained
more than 750 female employees
in over 100 apparel factories in
Bangladesh and Vietnam.
Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
17
Workforce Program
IFC’s Workforce advisory programs
provide manufacturing clients
with assessments and advisory
services focused on recruitment of
women employees, equitable career
development, and gender-inclusive
workplace policies. Since 2018, IFC has partnered with
manufacturing clients in the garment
and cement industries to improve
gender equity, including a partnership
with Nike to support more than 100 of
its strategic suppliers on gender.
Conclusion
Global apparel brands and their
network of suppliers face increasing
pressure from consumers,
governments, workers, and bankers
to decarbonize their operations,
conserve resources, reduce waste, and improve labor conditions. Over the past few decades, even as
production has boomed to meet the
needs of a growing global population,
textile and apparel manufacturers
have made significant progress.
Today, they are more conscious of
the impact of manufacturing and
they are more conscientious about
finding sustainable and often circular
solutions to address these challenges.
However, it will take even greater
collaboration across the value chain
along with support from governments
and international financial institutions
for the industry to achieve its goals. IFC will complement the work of
investors, regulators, and end-users to help the textile and apparel
industry drive a pathway to a zero
carbon future.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 18
References
AII (Apparel Impact Institute). n.d. “Your Clothes Are Made by Burning Coal. A New Institute Aims to Change That.”
https://apparelimpact.org/your-clothes-are-made-by-burning-coal-a-new-institute-aims-to-change-that/.
Amed, Imran, Achim Berg, Anita Balchandani, Saskia Hedroch, Jakob Ekelof Jensen, Michael Straub, Felix Rolkens,
Robb Young, Pamela Brown, Leila le Merle, Hannah Crump, and Amanda Dargan. 2022. “The State of Fashion
2022.” BOF (The Business of Fashion) and McKinsey & Company report. https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/
mckinsey/industries/retail/our%20insights/state%20of%20fashion/2022/the-state-of-fashion-2022.pdf.
Asia Perspective. 2022. “Clothing Manufacturing in China: An Introduction.” Asia Perspective. article, June 23, 2022.
https://www.asiaperspective.com/china-clothing-manufacturing-sourcing/#:~:text=China's%20Clothing%20
Manufacturing%20Industry,2021%20from%20the%20apparel%20market.
Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association. 2022. “Export Performance.” https://www.bgmea.
com.bd/page/Export_Performance.
Berg, Achim, Karl-Hendrik Magnus, Sara Kappelmark, Anna Granskog, Libbi Lee, Corinne Sawers, and Poorni
Polgampola. 2020. “Fashion on Climate: How the Fashion Industry Can Urgently Act to Reduce Its Greenhouse
Gas Emissions.” McKinsey & Company and Global Fashion Agenda report. https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/
mckinsey/industries/retail/our%20insights/fashion%20on%20climate/fashion-on-climate-full-report.pdf.
Better Work. n.d. “About Us. Our Work.” https://betterwork.org/.
BOF (Business of Fashion). 2021. “The Sustainability Gap: How Fashion Measures Up.” The Business of Fashion
Sustainability Index, March 22, 2021.
Companiesmarketcap.com. 2023. “Largest Clothing Companies by Market Cap.” https://companiesmarketcap.com/
clothing/largest-clothing-companies-by-market-cap/.
Conscious Club. 2019. “Water & Clothing.” The Conscious Club article, May 15, 2019. https://www.
theconsciouschallenge.org/ecologicalfootprintbibleoverview/water-clothing.
Conversation, The. 2017. “Five Years after Deadly Factory Fire, Bangladesh’s Textile Workers Are Still Vulnerable.”
The Conversation article, November 23, 2017. https://theconversation.com/five-years-after-deadly-factory-fire-
bangladeshs-garment-workers-are-still-vulnerable-88027.
Data Bridge Market Research. 2022. "Textile Fabric Market Destined to Reach USD1872.41 Million at a CAGR
of 12.90 by 2029, Size, Share, Trends, Industry Growth Rate, Demand & Revenue Forecast."GlobeNewswire,
October 14, 2022. https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2022/10/14/2534453/0/en/Textile-Fabric-
Market-Destine-to-Reach-USD-1872-41-Million-at-a-CAGR-of-12-90-by-2029-Size-Share-Trends-Industry-
Growth-Rate-Demand-Revenue-Forecast.html.
Dominish, Elsa. n.d. “Talking Climate Action: Measuring Carbon Emissions in the Garment Sector in Asia.”
International Labour Organization working paper. https://www.ilo.org/legacy/english/intserv/working-papers/
wp053/index.html#:~:text=should%20be%20prioritized.-,Executive%20Summary,in%20carbon%20
emissions%20per%20year.
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 2017. "A New Textiles Economy: Redesigning Fashion’s Future."https://
ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/a-new-textiles-economy#purchase-options
. n.d. "It's Time for a Circular Economy."https://ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/.
European Commission. 2022. “Green Deal: New Proposals to Make Sustainable Products the Norm and Boost
Europe’s Resource Independence.” European Commission press release, March 30, 2022. https://ec.europa.eu/
commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_2013.
. n.d. “EU Strategy for Sustainable and Circular Textiles.” European Commission website, Textile Strategy.
https://environment.ec.europa.eu/strategy/textiles-strategy_en.
FairWear. 2022. “The Common Framework for Responsible Purchasing Practices Out Now.” Article, July 25, 2022.
https://www.fairwear.org/stories/the-common-framework-for-responsible-purchasing-practices-out-now/.
Fashion United. 2022. “Global Fashion Industry Statistics.” https://fashionunited.com/global-fashion-industry-
statistics.
Granskog, Anna, Franck Laizet, Miriam Lobis, and Corinne Sawers. 2020. “Biodiversity: The Next Frontier in
Sustainable Fashion.” McKinsey & Company article, July 23, 2020. https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/retail/
our-insights/biodiversity-the-next-frontier-in-sustainable-fashion.
Haar, Jerry. 2022. “The Role of Nearshoring in Shoring up Supply Chains.” The Wilson Quarterly, fall 2022, The
Wilson Center, Washington, DC. https://www.wilsonquarterly.com/quarterly/as-strong-as-our-weakest-link/the-
role-of-nearshoring-in-shoring-up-supply-chains.
IFC (International Finance Corporation). n.d. “IFC’s Engagement in the Apparel & Textile Sectors in
Emerging Markets.” https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/48765bdf-5792-4ed9-a8ab-742cf4b29677/
Garment%26TextileBrochure-dk-04.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CVID=lUl6cii.
Strengthening Sustainability in the Textile Industry
19
Igini, Martina.” 2022. 10 Concerning Fast Fashion Waste Statistics.” Earth.org., August 2, 2022. https://earth.org/
statistics-about-fast-fashion-waste/#:~:text=92%20Million%20Tonnes%20of%20Textiles,on%20landfill%20
sites%20every%20second.
IPCC (The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). n.d. https://www.ipcc.ch/.
Jennifer L. 2022. “Levi’s Vows to Reach Net Zero Emissions by 2050.” Carbon Credits.com article, October 5, 2022.
https://carboncredits.com/levis-net-zero-2050/.
Kering. 2023. “Clean by Design.” Kering Sustainability News, January 29, 2023. https://www.kering.com/en/news/
clean-by-design-2017.
Kymo. 2021.“How Sustainable are Textiles? – A Comparison Using the Higg Material Index.” Kymo. Sept. 3, 2021.
https://www.kymo.de/en/blog/how-sustainable-are-textiles-a-comparison-using-the-higg-material-index#most-
sustainable-materials.
Lenzing AG. “Outlook on Global Fiber Demand and Supply 2030.” https://www.lenzing.com/?type=88245&tx_
filedownloads_file%5bfileName%5d=fileadmin/content/PDF/03_Forschung_u_Entwicklung/EN/Lenzinger_
Berichte_97_2022_02.pdf.
Levi Strauss & Co. 2019. “2025 Water Action Strategy.” Report. https://www.levistrauss.com/wp-content/
uploads/2019/08/2019_LSCO_WATER_STRATEGY_REPORT.pdf.
Lutz, Ashley. 2015. “Levi’s CEO Explains Why Jeans Should Never Go in the Washing Machine.” Insider.com article,
July 15, 2015. https://www.businessinsider.com/levis-ceo-dont-wash-your-jeans-2014-7.
Magnin, Clarisse, and Saskia Hedrich. 2019. “Refashioning Clothing’s Environmental Impact.” McKinsey & Company
sustainability blog, July 25, 2019. https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/sustainability/our-insights/sustainability-
blog/refashioning-clothings-environmental-impact.
Paneros. n.d. “Fabrics 101: 3 Famous Fibers.” https://panerosclothing.com/blogs/blog/fabrics-101-3-famous-fibers.
Solidary Center. n.d. “Global Garment and Textile Industries: Workers, Rights and Working Conditions.” https://www.
solidaritycenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/Garment-Textile-Industry-Fact-Sheet.8.2019.pdf.
Syrett, Holly, Sandra Gonza, Corinne Sawers, Max Stenholm, Ann Runnel, Nin Castle, and Harshitha Venati. 2021.
“Scaling Circularity: Lessons Learned from the Circular Fashion Partnership for Building Pre-Competitive
Collaborations to Scale Upstream Circular Fashion Systems.” Report by Global Fashion Agenda (GFA) and
McKinsey & Company. https://globalfashionagenda.org/resource/scaling-circularity-report/.
UNEP (UN Environment Programme). 2018. “Cleaning up Couture: What’s in Your Jeans.” UN Environment
Programme story, December 14, 2018. https://www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/cleaning-couture-whats-
your-jeans.
United Nations. 2019. “UN Launches Drive to Highlight Environmental Cost of Staying Fashionable.” Climate and
Environmental article, March 25, 2019. https://news.un.org/en/story/2019/03/1035161.
United Nations Climate Change. n.d. “About the Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Change.” https://unfccc.int/
climate-action/sectoral-engagement/global-climate-action-in-fashion/about-the-fashion-industry-charter-for-
climate-action.
Webb, Bella. 2020. “A New Movement to Reduce the Hidden Environment Cost of Clothing Care.” Vogue Business
article, October 22, 2020. https://www.voguebusiness.com/sustainability/a-new-movement-to-reduce-the-hidden-
environmental-cost-of-clothing-care.
World Bank. 2019. “How Much Do Our Wardrobes Cost to the Environment?” Feature Story, September 23, 2019.
https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2019/09/23/costo-moda-medio-ambiente.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION 20
Endnotes
1. Igini 2022.
2. Fashion United 2022.
3. UNEP 2018. See also https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/48765bdf-5792-4ed9-a8ab-742cf4b29677/
Garment%26TextileBrochure-dk-04.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&CVID=lUl6cii.
4. Dominish n.d.
5. Ibid.
6. Ellen MacArthur Foundation n.d.
7. IPCC n.d.
8. Asia Perspective 2022.
9. Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association 2022.
10. Companiesmarketcap.com. 2023.
11. Gschwandtner 2022.
12. UN Alliance for Sustainable Fashion n.d.
13. Dominish n.d.
14. United Nations 2019.
15. Paneros n.d.
16. Ibid.
17. Ibid.
18. United Nations Climate.
19. Carbon Credits.com 2022.
20. Jennifer L 2022.
21. BOF 2021.
22. Kering 2023. Under this process, each mill underwent a resource efficiency audit, developed an action plan, and
implemented technological improvements. Altogether, Kering and its suppliers introduced more than 150 energy-
and water-efficiency improvements with an average 2.5 years’ return on investment, according to the company.
23. To read more about the history of nearshoring, see Haar, Jerry. 2022. “The Role of Nearshoring in Shoring
up Supply Chains.” The Wilson Quarterly, fall 2022, The Wilson Center, Washington, DC. https://www.
wilsonquarterly.com/quarterly/as-strong-as-our-weakest-link/the-role-of-nearshoring-inshoring-up-supply-chains.
24. Igini 2022.
25. Ellen MacArthur Foundation n.d.
26. For more information, see https://www.roadmaptozero.com/?locale=en.
27. BOF 2021.
28. Ellen MacArthur Foundation n.d.
29. Berg et al 2020.
30. AII n.d.
31. Webb 2020.
32. Lutz 2015.
33. Granskog et al. 2020.
34. Kymo 2021.
35. Syrett et al. 2021.
36. Ibid.
37. Ibid.
www.ifc.org/manufacturing
September 2023
www.linkedin.com/showcase/ifc-manufacturing