© 2024 Deloitte The Netherlands
Automatically create and submit quarterly
CBAM xml Reports.
Standardized simplified communication and
process management controls that enables
you to request relevant CBAM data and
documentation from suppliers or producers.
Automated direct and indirect emission
allocation to EU imports, either through a
fully automatic system-to-system interface, a
batch upload or a manual entry of import and
emissions data.
Reporting model and content is kept up-to-
date and maintained by Deloitte.
Our automated solution
How it works? The solution:
Can run stand-alone or as part of a complete
customs management system
implementation.
Can connect to any feeder system and
facilitates manual uploads of import data.
Provides a dashboard and visual
representations of the progress and
status of quarterly report preparations.
Allows to prepare, file and edit quarterly
CBAM reports.
The CBAM Compliance Manager capabilities:
Our vision is to
integrate all data
sources into one secure,
centralized system that
not only compiles and
allocates data for up-to-
date CBAM reporting
but also simplifies
automated data
collection from
suppliers, enhancing
efficiency and
compliance.
C A R B O N  B O R D E R  A D J U S T M E N T
CBAM Compliance Manager © 2024 Deloitte The Netherlands
CBAM Compliance Manager Solution is based on Deloitte’s TrackonTrade
software and connects customs data with (auto-
solicitated) CBAM data enriched by relevant
content resulting in a compliant CBAM report.
Automated quarterly CBAM report preparation
Automated data collection (solicitation) and
allocation model
Certificate monitoring and real-time dashboarding
(future functionality)
Workflow management (supplier data)
Maintained with the latest legislation by Deloitte
Automatic emissions calculation based on input
data or default (fallback) values in system
Centralized input of emission data by suppliers /
users
Facilitates both manual data entry or interfacing
The CBAM Compliance Manager is a digital solution that
enables EU importers to automate their CBAM
reporting obligations.
Additionally, the Exporter portal facilitates data
sharing with EU importers by providing pre-defined,
legally relevant supplier data at the product level for
non-EU suppliers, thereby enabling compliance with EU
CBAM reporting obligations.
Value of the CBAM Compliance Manager to the
organization and business
Lower compliance costs due to automation of
sharing, obtaining and allocation of data and
compiling the CBAM report.
Improved compliance due to fully up-to-date CBAM
reporting requirements.
Commercial advantage of readily available CBAM
data.
Reduced risk of incorrect emissions reported, and
audits by authorities.
Enhanced customer service through the provision
of relevant CBAM data via the exporter portal.
Education and explanations of data elements for
suppliers on data elements to be provided.
Full audit trail of process and product cost
forecasting opportunities.
CBAM Compliance Manager can be used as a
stand-alone
solution
part
the
implementation of our customs management
solution TrackonTrade.
C A R B O N  B O R D E R  A D J U S T M E N T
Deloitte Contacts
Rebecca Pehlivan
Partner
Maikel van der Knaap
Senior Manager
Nikhil Mediratta
Senior Consultant