Greening Viet Nam*s textile and garment sector: a
high stakes challenge
19Jul2023
HO CHI MINH CITY, Viet Nam - With a coastline stretching more than 3,000 kilometres, Viet Nam is one of
the worlds most vulnerable countries to climate change and sea level rise. ItS also one of the most carbon
intensive economies in Asia.
The countrys rapid economic growth, urbanization, and industrialization over the last 30 years have been
pDowered by a coal-dependent energy supply that has resulted in some of the fastest-growing greenhouse
gas emission (GHG) rates in the world, according to data from the World Bank. By 2015, its per capita
emissions were four times what they were in 2000.
Following the pledge made at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26), Viet Nam is targeting a carbon-
neutral status by 2050 through an ambitious decarbonization process, targeting big economic contributors.
As a first step, the country is now urgently working to cut its GHG emissions by at least 8% by 2030.
The textile and garment industry accounts to up to 16% of the countrys total GDP and employs around 12%
of the industrial workforce, or about 5% of the countrys total labour force. Its contribution to the economy
isundeniable. Still, the sector is one of the leading polluters to the countrys environment.
As a result, a greening industrial wave has hit textile and garment production. The local industry has
planned to reduce energy consumption by 15% and water consumption by 20% by years end. That
trajectory is well-aligned with the environmental protection law that came into effect at the start of
2022, which includes strict audits for high-energy consuming factories, and with brands' demands to have
their producing partners comply with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) standards.
The dyeing and finishing processes in the garment industry are responsible for 3% of CO2 emissions. Factories in Viet Nam
are trying to reduce this considerable footprint. (Photo from Saitex International Dong Nai (Viet Nam) Co., Ltd)
Still, those efforts come at a difficult time. Garment factories have been facing a decline in orders over the
lastyear. Exports decreased by nearly 17.7% year over year (YoY) in the first quarter of 2023, according
precarious position - to manage the financial strain while also prioritizing energy-saving and emission-
reducing measures.
“We are facing the challenges of the countrys economic downturn. Still, we are thinking strategically,
meaning cooperation with investors and the implementation of a green transition are a must,” says Phan
Thi Phuong Dung, compliance officer and team leader of Better Work-participating factory Viet Tien
Garment Corp. - Viet Long Factory. “If we want to keep doing business and accessing the European Union
and the US markets amid the new set of rules, we will need to comply with the international requirements
concerning sustainability.” The group, which owns 16 clothing plants across the country, collaborates
through its vendors with major international brands.
This transition toward sustainability-focused production began in 2014, when brands started prioritizing
green operations when placing orders, and pushing factories to follow green practices.
“One of our major US brands required us to set up at least one of our factories in line with the requirements
of the green building certification Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). We are now
applying the lesson learnt through this certification by implementing the same structural changes to the
other clothing plants in our group,” says Phan Thi Phuong.
Some global brands have supported factories in their green efforts. Brands like H&M Group have also set
ambitious goals for reducing their overall environmental impact in the country.
“We have a clear priority for the next years, to reduce our absolute greenhouse emissions by 56% by 2030
and increase our sourcing of renewable electricity to 100% by 2030, both with 2019 as a baseline,”
says Christer Horn af Äminne, H&M Group Country Manager for Cambodia and Vietnam. “The ultimate goal
is to achieve net-zero by 2040.”
The approach is multi-faceted, Horn af Äminne explains. H&M Group intends to reduce their dependency
on virgin materials and scale up the use of recycled materials for their products, and also phase out coal
from their suppliers to transition towards sustainable alternatives. The brand has stopped onboarding new
suppliers in Viet Nam with on-site coal boilers and has made funding available to supplying factories to
invest in the technologies and processes needed to reduce energy demand and replace fossil fuels.
“We have two approved projects in Viet Nam with a potential annual CO2 reduction of about 36,000 tons in
our supply chain. These projects focus on replacing coal, and increasing renewable energy generation by
adding rooftop solar panels,” he explains. “Since the biggest part of our greenhouse gas emissions take
place in our supply chain, we are focusing on different areas to reach our goals.”
Rooftop solar panels are a primary way factories like Viet Long are investing in clean energy - these initiatives are often
influenced by sourcing brands.
Yet, new challenges continue emerge for brands and factories alike as they try to meet their goals.
“We were asked by brands to reduce our CO2 emissions by 2030. To meet such requirements, we installed
solar panels on our facilities rooftops. Still, the resulting electricity would merely cover 10-20% of our needs.
For the rest, we need to buy electricity from the government, making it quite difficult to demonstrate that it
comes from a purely clean energy source,” says Phan Thi Phuong. As Viet Nam shifts to a lower-carbon, less
fossil fuel-reliant economy, international partners and investors have started supporting its transition. The
International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group and one of Better Works
Darent organizations, is among those who have stepped up their support to help the local industry to make
footwear and textile supply chains more sustainable.
“Since 2019, through the Viet Nam Improvement Program, IFC has reached out to 112 facilities and
provided technical recommendations to manage resource efficiency, facilitate clean energy transition and
reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” says Anh Tuong Vu, IFC Industrial Resource Efficiency and Clean Energy
Program Leader. “With more than $51 million in finance facilitated, the implernented recommendations
save over 830,000MWh of electricity, and generate around 27,000MWh solar power every year, reducing
GHG emissions by over 360,000 tons annually. This also improves the working environment as an
associated benefit.”
Viet Nam is also one of the countries selected to receive climate financial support from the Just Energy
Transition Partnership (JETP), a financing cooperation mechanism that aims to help heavily coal-dependent
emerging economies make a just energy transition.
Meanwhile, the Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association (VITAS) has recently proposed to the government
to secure a 18.5 million USD investment for a sustainable development programme for its partner factories.
Still, incentives and investments are not yet as available as local factories would like, making their journey
lengthy and costly.
“Our company laid out an environmental sustainability plan in 2021 and started its implementation in 2022
asrequested by our brands,” says Nguyen Thuy An, Human Resources and Compliance Deputy Manager
with Better Work-enrolled factory Hong Kong Rise Sun Textile Co. Ltd. “The first thing we did was review the
energy charts of the factory. Based on this, we decided the way forward.”
The factory, with its 900-strong workforce, produces knitting garments for the international market. For the
past two years, ithas embarked on a 5 million USD investment to green its production. Its revamped
programme included machine and equipment replacement, a control system upgrade, waste-heat recovery
interventions and workforce training and awareness programmes.
“We switched to energy-saving LED lighting and decided to provide electricity calculated on our production
scale,” Nguyen says. “We then went on to insulate our dyeing machines and their steam valves, install
OXygen sensors to control the aïr supply for our oil and steam boilers, and started replacing the latter with
biomass boilers that combust sustainably sourced material instead of gas, coal or oil to produce the heat.”
A sustainability awareness campaign was launched targeting the workforce, focusing on ways to save
water. The sustainability measures include installing special machines to better manage the wastewater
recycling, as well as 6,500 solar panels in the facility. The new solar system helped reduce about 25% of the
electricity used by the company from the national grid. All the measures feature a different return on
investment time frame, spanning three months to eight years, depending on the intervention.
“Investing in this direction has become the long-term strategy for factories until 2030. We must meet the
countrys goal and to do this, we are all willing to spend,” says Nguyen. “Still, we need extra support from
partners. This would allow a major and organic sustainability expansion across the country now and in the
future. Better Work can help us scale the environmental protection message across its factory network, the
whole sector and national levels.”
Phan Thi Phuong from Viet Tien Garment Corp agrees, highlighting how international organizations like
Better Work could help this transition by leveraging its role as convenor of the factories' needs with
international and local partners, and by seeking to influence the policies regulating the matter.
Boiler and pipeline improvements are another way factories like Hong Kong Rise Sun Textile Co. are mitigating water waste
and conserving energy.
Environmental sustainability is one of the top priorities in Better Works current strategic period, fitting into
the larger ILO commitment to a just transition to global environmental sustainability. The programme has
started working with other ILO units and key partners in Viet Nam, focusing on the skills required to
transition to greener production and leveraging energy and resource efficiency's contributions to
productivity, while promoting the workers well-being.
“In Viet Nam, we are part of the ILO Cleaner Production Training programme, run in collaboration with the
Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry, through a dedicated SCORE Training module”, says Better
Work Viet Nam Enterprise Advisor Nguyen Thi Phuong Thanh. “This has been a pilot project so far, but we
are planning to expand it further. ”
But the call for transition should have a holistic supply chain approach.
“More pressure should be made by consumers to ask brands to make sustainability a priority,” Phan Thi
Phuong says. “This would lead them to contribute to the industry transition in a much larger scale by
actively investing in upgrading machinery and technology. We also need national incentive policies and
support.”
Its clear that for Viet NamSs garment industry to make a successful transition to reduced carbon emissions
and improved environmental sustainability, it will need to be a shared commitment among stakeholders
and throughout the supply chain.