Carbon tax policies are a fundamental instrument used by governments to achieve their decarbonization
commitments and reach their emission reduction targets. The Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism
(CBAM) that entered into force in the EU on 1 October 2023, marks a major step in the EU carbon
pricing policy that will affect businesses, including Swiss-based companies, operating in the EU region.
The CBAM will introduce a carbon price on imports of
specific products with a high risk of emissions to prevent
the relocation of production to countries that have lower or
lax carbon emission standards compared to the EU. The
initial scope of the CBAM regulation is set to apply to imports
of products into the EU from the following six emission
intensive sectors: iron and steel, cement, fertilizer, aluminum,
electricity and hydrogen. Indirect emissions under certain
conditions, certain precursors, as well as downstream
products of some categories (e.g. screws and bolts) are also
included.
In practice, businesses importing CBAM-covered goods
produced outside of the EU will have to assess the emissions
embedded in their products and purchase CBAM certificates
(equivalent to emission allowance certificates issued under
the EU’s ETS system). Businesses will also have to face
registration and CBAM reporting obligations.
The scope of CBAM-covered goods and the arrangements
for the gradual implementation of the mechanism could be
further expanded or amended before the end of the
transitional period (2023-2026). As a result, the number of
companies affected by the CBAM could greatly increase in
the future.
New rules on carbon taxation:
Carbon Border Adjustment
Mechanism (CBAM)
Steps for immediate action (based on CBAM
measures applicable as of 1 October 2023): While we are navigating the transitional phase of
CBAM, businesses should prepare now to align
their business model with the new requirements:
•	 Supply chain assessment: Undertake a review of the
global supply chain and product categories to assess
whether they are affected by CBAM regulations.
•	 CBAM registration: Determine which entity/entities will
have to act as an Authorized Declarant for imports of
CBAM-covered goods into the EU. These entities are subject
to CBAM reporting requirements as of 1 October 2023.
•	 Review data availability and implement processes for
data collection and for emissions reporting: Track what
data on embedded emissions is available and whether
these are relevant for CBAM reporting, assess the data
required to be collected from third-party vendors and
implement appropriate emissions calculation methodology
for reporting.
•	 CBAM reporting: Define compliance processes and
manage the submission of CBAM reports that are
currently required on a quarterly basis, as of 1 October
While the full scope of CBAM measures will be gradually
implemented as of 2026, businesses will need to timely
prepare for future developments, such as the extension of
CBAM scope to new product categories and the financial
impact on the cost of goods that will arise from the
obligation to purchase CBAM certificates to cover the
embedded emissions of their imports. Going forward,
businesses should focus on analyzing carbon pricing measures
as part of the tax planning strategy and consider possible
optimizations to transform their global supply chain model.
How KPMG can help
•	 Perform readiness workshops to increase business
awareness of CBAM.
•	 Support businesses to assess potential impacts of CBAM
across their supply chain operations.
•	 Support businesses with technology-enabled, automated
solutions and tools for CBAM assessment and reporting.
•	 Verify emissions measurement standards applied to
calculate embedded emissions in accordance with CBAM.
Challenges
•	 Businesses will need to assess their supply chain
operations to identify the product categories and trade
flows of imports into the EU that may be impacted by
CBAM regulations.
•	 Businesses responsible for importing CBAM-covered
goods in the EU sourced from non EU production sites
will need to ensure the collection of the relevant data on
embedded emissions from their suppliers.
•	 Implementing a methodology for measuring and
calculating emissions embedded in covered products
according to CBAM standards could prove rather
challenging if production is spread across different
•	 Review availability and quality of the import data required
for CBAM reporting purposes.
•	 Assist companies integrate CBAM requirements in their
contracting processes.
•	 Tax planning and supply chain transformation reviews to
align with CBAM requirements and optimize supply chain
capabilities.
•	 Evaluate CBAM risks in due diligence processes.
jurisdictions with varying carbon tax and CO2 emissions
policies.
•	 Businesses must scrutinize the processes required to
monitor the emissions performance of their supply chain
and verify their emissions methodology and the quality of
available data required for CBAM reporting.
•	 Besides observing compliance and reporting obligations,
companies must consider the impact of emission
allowances as part of their production costs and ensure
the resilience of their pricing model to the new
requirements.
Contacts
Badenerstrasse 172
PO Box
8036 Zurich
kpmg.ch/esg-hub
Elizabeth Barendregt
Partner, Indirect Tax
+41 79 440 01 25
The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no
guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act on such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough
examination of the particular situation. The scope of any potential collaboration with audit clients is defined by regulatory requirements governing auditor independence. If you would like to know more about how KPMG AG
processes personal data, please read our Privacy Policy, which you can find on our homepage at www.kpmg.ch.
© 2023 KPMG AG, a Swiss corporation, is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member firm of the KPMG global organization of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a private
English company limited by guarantee. All rights reserved.
New rules on carbon taxation: Cross-Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) September 2022
Konstantina Tsiosta
Senior Manager, Indirect Tax
+41 78 739 36 48
Your benefits
•	 Global team of tax, customs, and regulatory experts to help you understand CBAM
developments and explore opportunities to manage or mitigate exposure
•	 Data-driven approach to accurately track and measure exposure to carbon pricing and
adjustment measures
•	 Advisory support with impact measurement and verification processes of carbon
emissions
•	 Comprehensive, value-based strategic tax planning to increase carbon performance of the
supply chains