REGULATION (EU) 2025/2083 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 8 October 2025
amending Regulation (EU) 2023/956 as regards simplifying and strengthening the carbon border
adjustment mechanism
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 192(1) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (1),
After consulting the Committee of the Regions,
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (2),
Whereas:
(1)
Since the start of the transitional period on 1 October 2023 laid down in Regulation (EU) 2023/956 of the European
Parliament and of the Council (3), the Commission has been collecting data and information on the implementation
of the carbon border adjustment mechanism (the ‘CBAM’) as provided for therein, including through the analysis of
quarterly reports submitted by reporting declarants. The information collected and the exchanges with the
stakeholders, including exchanges within the expert group on the CBAM, have indicated areas to simplify and
strengthen the CBAM in line with the Union’s commitment to ensure a smooth implementation of the CBAM once
the transitional period ends on 1 January 2026.
(2)
Based on the experience acquired and data collected during the transitional period on the distribution of importers
of goods listed in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2023/956 into the Union, only a small proportion of those importers
account for the vast majority of emissions embedded in imported goods. The derogation applied to the importation
of goods of negligible value, namely those not exceeding a total of EUR 150 per consignment, referred to in
Article 23 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1186/2009 (4) appears insufficient to ensure that the CBAM applies to
importers in proportion to the impact of those importers on the emissions covered by Regulation (EU) 2023/956.
For importers of small quantities of goods, compliance with reporting and financial obligations laid down in
Regulation (EU) 2023/956 could be unduly burdensome. A new derogation should therefore be introduced to
exempt from obligations under Regulation (EU) 2023/956 importers of small quantities in terms of mass of goods
listed in Annex I of that Regulation, while preserving the environmental objective of the CBAM and its capacity to
achieve the envisaged climate objective.
Official
L series
2025/2083
1/24
(1)1(1)
OJ C, C/2025/3201, 2.7.2025, ELI:
(2)2(2)
Position of the European Parliament of 10 September 2025 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of
29 September 2025.
(3)3(3)
Regulation (EU) 2023/956 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 May 2023 establishing a carbon border adjustment
mechanism (OJ L 130, 16.5.2023, p. 52, ELI:
(4)4(4)
Council Regulation (EC) No 1186/2009 of 16 November 2009 setting up a Community system of reliefs from customs duty (OJ
L 324, 10.12.2009, p. 23, ELI: (3)
A new threshold based on cumulative net mass of the imported goods in a given calendar year per importer (the
‘single mass-based threshold’) should be introduced in Regulation (EU) 2023/956, and initially be set at a level of 50
tonnes. A single mass-based threshold should apply cumulatively to all goods in the sectors of iron and steel,
aluminium, fertilisers and cement. Where the net mass of all goods imported by an importer in a given calendar year
does not cumulatively exceed the single mass-based threshold, such an importer, including any importer with the
status of an authorised CBAM declarant, should be exempted in a given calendar year from the obligations under
Regulation (EU) 2023/956 (the ‘de minimis exemption’). Where, within a relevant calendar year, an importer exceeds
the single mass-based threshold, that importer should be subject to obligations under Regulation (EU) 2023/956 in
respect of all emissions embedded in all goods imported during that relevant calendar year, including, in particular,
the obligation to obtain the status of authorised CBAM declarant, the obligation to submit a CBAM declaration in
respect of all emissions embedded in all goods imported in that relevant calendar year and the obligation to purchase
and surrender CBAM certificates in respect of all those emissions.
(4)
In the electricity and hydrogen sectors, key features such as quantity of imports, trade patterns, customs information
and emission intensities differ substantially from those in the iron and steel, aluminium, fertilisers and cement
sectors. Those differences imply that making electricity and hydrogen imports subject to a single mass-based
threshold would require introducing complex adjustments that would not allow for the substantial reduction of
administrative costs for importers in those sectors. Imports of electricity or hydrogen should therefore not be
included under the de minimis exemption.
(5)
The establishment of the single mass-based threshold that reflects the average emissions intensity of the quantity of
the imported goods pursues the objective of ensuring that at least 99 % of emissions embedded in imported goods
remain within the scope of the CBAM and that therefore the de minimis exemption applies to no more than 1 % of
emissions embedded in imported goods. The de minimis exemption would represent a robust and targeted approach
as it accurately reflects the environmental nature and the climate objective of the CBAM while substantially reducing
the CBAM-related administrative burden for importers, the vast majority of whom will be exempted from the
obligations under Regulation (EU) 2023/956. At the same time, the CBAM continues to apply to at least 99 % of
emissions embedded in the imported goods. Such a single mass-based threshold also eliminates the risk of
circumvention through an artificial splitting of consignments by a single importer.
(6)
The Commission should each year assess, on the basis of import data for the preceding 12 calendar months, whether
a material change has occurred in the average emission intensities of the goods or in the pattern of trade in goods,
including practices of circumvention. In order to ensure that at least 99 % of emissions embedded in the imported
goods remain within the scope of the CBAM, the Commission should adopt delegated acts in order to amend the
single mass-based threshold by using the methodology set out in point 2 of Annex VII of Regulation (EU) 2023/956.
To ensure effectiveness and certainty, the Commission should only adopt such acts where the value of the resulting
threshold deviates from the applicable threshold by more than 15 tonnes. Where the single mass-based threshold is
amended, it should apply as from the beginning of the following calendar year.
(7)
To ensure that the derogation is sufficiently targeted, the single mass-based threshold should apply to each importer,
including those importers with the status of authorised CBAM declarant. For that purpose, imports of an importer
should be taken into account irrespective of whether they have been declared by the importer itself or an indirect
customs representative. The indirect customs representative, due to the nature of its activity and the related
obligations under Regulation (EU) 2023/956, should always be required to obtain the status of an authorised CBAM
declarant prior to acting on behalf of an importer in respect of goods listed in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2023/956.
Where an importer represented by one or more indirect customs representatives has exceeded the single mass-based
threshold, each indirect customs representative that is acting as an authorised CBAM declarant should submit
a CBAM declaration in respect of the goods imported into the customs territory of the Union by that indirect
customs representative, including any goods below the single mass-based threshold, for those represented importers
that have exceeded the single mass-based threshold, and should surrender the number of CBAM certificates which
correspond to emissions embedded in those goods.
2/24
For the purposes of legal certainty, it is appropriate to expressly provide that where an indirect customs
representative acts as an authorised CBAM declarant on behalf of an importer, the indirect customs representative
should be subject to the obligations applicable to that importer pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2023/956, in particular
the obligation to submit a CBAM declaration in respect of the goods imported by the indirect customs representative
on behalf of that importer and to surrender the CBAM certificates in respect of emissions embedded in those goods.
As a result, in the event of non-compliance, it should be the indirect customs representative that is subject to
penalties under Regulation (EU) 2023/956. However, the indirect customs representative should not be subject to
penalties where an indirect customs representative acting on behalf of an importer established in a Member State has
not agreed to act as an authorised CBAM declarant.
(9)
Based on customs information, the Commission should monitor the quantities of goods imported to assess
compliance with the single mass-based threshold. The competent authorities should also be able to carry out such
monitoring. To allow the competent authorities to make an informed decision, it is necessary to lay down
appropriate arrangements for making the necessary information and data available to the competent authorities.
Each competent authority should be able to request necessary information and evidence from customs authorities,
including the name, address and contact information of importers where such information is not otherwise available
to the competent authority. Where the customs authorities become aware that an importer has exceeded the single
mass-based threshold, including on the basis of information from the competent authority, they should not allow
further importation of goods by that importer until the end of the relevant calendar year, or until that importer has
obtained the status of authorised CBAM declarant.
(10)
An importer that expects to exceed the annual single mass-based threshold should submit an application for an
authorisation. Such an importer should obtain the status of authorised CBAM declarant before the single mass-based
threshold is exceeded. Importers that have not been granted the authorisation before exceeding the single
mass-based threshold should be subject to penalties.
(11)
The obligation to obtain the status of authorised CBAM declarant before the single mass-based threshold is exceeded
could result in a high number of applications being lodged at the beginning of 2026. In order to facilitate the
application of Regulation (EU) 2023/956 after the expiry of transitional provisions, and avoid potential import
disruptions, it is appropriate to allow importers and indirect customs representatives that have submitted an
application for an authorisation by 31 March 2026 to continue importing the goods in 2026 even after exceeding
the single mass-based threshold pending the decision on granting of the authorisation. In order to avoid
circumvention of Regulation (EU) 2023/956, where granting of the authorisation is refused, the importers and
indirect customs representatives should be subject to penalties in accordance with Article 26(2a) of that Regulation.
(12)
To ensure that the definition of an importer covers all relevant customs procedures, it is necessary to amend it to
include the case of the simplified customs procedure where only a bill of discharge is presented pursuant to
Article 175(5) of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 (5).
(13)
To achieve a balance between the effectiveness of the authorisation procedure and the risk profile of the applicants,
the consultation procedure should be optional for the competent authority. The consultation procedure should
allow the competent authority to consult other competent authorities and the Commission where it is considered
necessary based on the information submitted by the applicant and customs information made available in the
CBAM registry.
(14)
To provide additional flexibility, the authorised CBAM declarant should be able to delegate the submission of the
CBAM declaration to a third party. The authorised CBAM declarant should remain responsible for the submission of
the CBAM declaration. In order to enable the authorised CBAM declarant to provide the required delegation and
access to a third party, that third party should fulfil certain technical credentials, including holding an Economic
Operators Registration and Identification (EORI) number and being established in a Member State.
3/24
(5)5(5)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 of 28 July 2015 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European
Parliament and of the Council as regards detailed rules concerning certain provisions of the Union Customs Code (OJ L 343,
29.12.2015, p. 1, ELI: (15)
Authorised CBAM declarants should submit their annual CBAM declaration and surrender the corresponding
number of certificates by 30 September of the year following the year of importation of the goods. In order to
provide authorised CBAM declarants flexibility to comply with their obligations, a later date of submission would
provide authorised CBAM declarants more time to collect the necessary information, ensure that embedded
emissions are verified by an accredited verifier, and purchase the corresponding number of CBAM certificates. The
date for the cancellation of CBAM certificates should be adjusted accordingly.
(16)
The embedded emissions of some aluminium and steel goods currently included in the scope of Regulation (EU)
2023/956 are primarily determined by the embedded emissions of input materials (precursors), while the emissions
arising during the production steps of those goods are typically relatively low. Those production steps consist of
finishing processes that are carried out by separate installations not covered by the EU emissions trading system (the
‘EU ETS’) as provided for in Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (6), except for the
case of integrated facilities. With a view to ensuring coherence with EU ETS rules and to simplifying the application
of CBAM rules for operators in third countries, the embedded emissions of those production processes should be
excluded from the system boundaries for the calculation of emissions, by aligning the system boundaries of
production processes with those covered by the EU ETS.
(17)
Electricity generated on the continental shelf or in the exclusive economic zone of a Member State or a third country
is considered as originating in that Member State or that third country, respectively. Hydrogen originating on the
continental shelf or in the exclusive economic zone of a Member State or a third country is considered as originating
in that Member State or that third country, respectively.
(18)
Where input materials (precursors) have already been subject to the EU ETS or to a carbon pricing system that is
fully linked with the EU ETS, the embedded emissions of those precursors should not be accounted for in the
calculation of the embedded emissions of complex goods.
(19)
Authorised CBAM declarants are required to submit an annual CBAM declaration containing the calculation of
embedded emissions on the basis of either default values or actual values verified by accredited verifiers. Default
values should be calculated and made available by the Commission. The verification of embedded emissions should
therefore only apply to actual values.
(20)
Information collected during the transitional period indicates that reporting declarants have difficulties in obtaining
the required information on the carbon price effectively paid in a third country. To facilitate the deduction of the
carbon price, the Commission should, where possible, establish an annual average carbon price expressed in
EUR/tonne of CO2e of the effective carbon price paid, including on a conservative basis, based on the best available
data from reliable, publicly available information and information provided by third countries to the Commission.
(21)
The evidence required for the deduction of a carbon price effectively paid relies on information relevant for the
determination and verification of actual embedded emissions. Where the embedded emissions are declared on the
basis of default values, it should only be possible to claim the deduction of the carbon price by reference to yearly
default carbon prices, where available. Furthermore, since the embedded emissions of precursors should not be
accounted for where they have already been subject to the EU ETS or to a carbon pricing system that is fully linked
with the EU ETS, the carbon price associated with those embedded emissions is not relevant for the deduction.
(22)
Authorised CBAM declarants can claim a reduction in the number of CBAM certificates to be surrendered
corresponding to the carbon price effectively paid in the country of origin for the declared embedded emissions.
Since the carbon price can be paid in a third country other than the country of origin of the imported goods, such
a carbon price should also be eligible for deduction.
(23)
To improve the reliability of the data on embedded emissions contained in the CBAM registry and to facilitate the
submission of data, accredited verifiers should access, upon request from operators in third countries, the CBAM
registry to verify the embedded emissions. In addition, parent companies or controlling entities of those operators
should be allowed to access the CBAM registry for the purpose of registering and sharing relevant data on behalf of
those operators. The operators should be required to provide a corporate or activity registration number to ensure
their identification.
4/24
(6)6(6)
Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 establishing a system for greenhouse gas
emission allowance trading within the Union and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC (OJ L 275, 25.10.2003, p. 32, ELI: http://
(24)
To ensure consistency with Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (7), as well
as Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2067 (8), a verifier should be a legal person that is accredited for
the purpose of Regulation (EU) 2023/956 by a decision of a national accreditation body. In taking that decision, the
national accreditation body should take into account the relevant groups of activities under Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2018/2067 for the assessment of the qualifications of the legal person.
(25)
To foster the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2023/956 at national level, Member States should ensure that the
competent authorities have all the powers necessary for the performance of their functions and duties.
(26)
The costs incurred in connection with the establishment, operation and management of the common central
platform should be financed by fees payable by authorised CBAM declarants. For the duration of the first joint public
procurement contract for the establishment, operation and management of the common central platform, those
costs should initially be borne by the general budget of the Union and, to that end, the revenues generated by those
fees should be assigned to the Union budget to cover the relevant costs. In view of the nature of the revenues, it is
appropriate to treat the revenues as internal assigned revenues. Any revenues remaining after covering those costs
should be assigned to the Union budget. The Commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts that
determine the structure and level of fees so that the organisation and use of the common central platform is
cost-efficient, that the fees are set so as to strictly cover the relevant costs and that undue administrative costs are
avoided. The Commission should also adopt delegated acts that determine for the duration of the subsequent joint
procurement contracts that the fees should directly finance the costs of the operation and management of the
platform.
(27)
To provide authorised CBAM declarants sufficient time to prepare for compliance with the amended obligations
under Regulation (EU) 2023/956, Member States should start selling CBAM certificates in 2027 for emissions
embedded in goods imported during the year 2026. The price of CBAM certificates purchased in 2027 and
corresponding to emissions embedded in goods imported into the Union in 2026 should reflect the prices of EU
ETS allowances in 2026.
(28)
The obligation for the authorised CBAM declarants to ensure that the number of CBAM certificates on their account
in the CBAM registry at the end of each quarter corresponds to at least 80 % of the emissions embedded in the goods
they have imported since the start of the year is insufficiently tailored to the expected financial adjustment. It is
therefore necessary to both reduce the percentage from 80 % to 50 % and integrate the free allocation of EU ETS
allowances. Furthermore, the authorised CBAM declarant should be able to rely on the information submitted in the
CBAM declaration in the previous year for the same goods and same third countries.
(29)
Similarly, the repurchase limit should align more accurately with the number of CBAM certificates which the
authorised CBAM declarants are required to purchase during the year of importation.
(30)
Since CBAM certificates are cancelled without any compensation, there is no need for an exchange of information
from the common central platform to the CBAM registry at the end of the working day.
(31)
Where an authorised CBAM declarant fails to surrender the correct number of CBAM certificates as a result of
incorrect information provided by a third party, namely an operator, a verifier or an independent person certifying
the carbon price documentation, the competent authorities, when applying penalties, should be able to take into
account the specific circumstances concerned, such as the duration, gravity, scope, intentional or negligent nature or
repetition of the non-compliance or the level of cooperation of the authorised CBAM declarant. This would allow for
a reduction of the amount of the penalty where minor or unintentional errors are made.
5/24
(7)7(7)
Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the requirements for
accreditation and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30, ELI: oj).
(8)8(8)
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2067 of 19 December 2018 on the verification of data and on the accreditation
of verifiers pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 334, 31.12.2018, p. 94, ELI: (32)
Importers other than authorised CBAM declarants that have exceeded the single mass-based threshold should be
subject to a penalty provided in Article 26(2a). For that purpose, the entirety of the emissions embedded in the
goods imported by such an importer without authorisation in the relevant calendar year should be taken into
account. It is appropriate to provide that the payment of the penalty releases the importer from the obligation to
submit a CBAM declaration and surrender CBAM certificates in respect of those imports. In order to take into
account a minor infringement or its unintentional nature, the competent authorities should be able to impose
a lower penalty where the single mass-based threshold has been exceeded by no more than 10 % of that threshold or
where the importer has provisionally continued to import goods and its application for the status of authorised
CBAM declarant has been refused.
(33)
Regulation (EU) 2023/956 applies to certain carbon-intensive goods imported into the Union. Goods listed in
Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2023/956 include ‘other kaolinic clays’ in the list of cement goods. While calcined
kaolinic clays are carbon-intensive products, this is not the case for non-calcined kaolinic clays. Non-calcined
kaolinic clays should therefore be excluded from the scope of Regulation (EU) 2023/956.
(34)
Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2023/956 lists the goods for which only direct emissions should be taken into account
in the calculation of embedded emissions. For goods not listed in that Annex, both direct and indirect emissions
should be taken into account. Since indirect emissions are not relevant in the case of electricity generation, electricity
should be added to the list of goods in that Annex.
(35)
It is necessary to simplify the means for determining default values when reliable data for the exporting country
would not be available for a certain type of goods. In such cases, to prevent carbon leakage, the default value should
be set at the level of the average emission intensity of the 10 exporting countries with the highest emission
intensities for which reliable data is available, which is an appropriate average to ensure the environmental objective
of the CBAM. This is without prejudice to the possibility to adapt these default values based on region-specific
features pursuant to point 7 of Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2023/956.
(36)
In order to supplement and amend certain non-essential elements of Regulation (EU) 2023/956, the power to adopt
acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be delegated to
the Commission in respect of amending the single mass-based threshold in Annex VII to that Regulation, where
necessary, as determined in accordance with Article 2(3a) of that Regulation, and supplementing that Regulation in
order to determine that the fees payable by authorised CBAM declarants directly finance the costs of the operation
and management of the common central platform. It is of particular importance that the Commission carry out
appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level, and that those consultations be
conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on
Better Law-Making (9). In particular, to ensure equal participation in the preparation of delegated acts, the European
Parliament and the Council receive all documents at the same time as Member States’ experts, and their experts
systematically have access to meetings of Commission expert groups dealing with the preparation of delegated acts.
(37)
Since the objectives of this Regulation, namely simplifying certain obligations and strengthening the mechanism that
the Union has adopted to prevent the risk of carbon leakage and thereby reduce global carbon emissions, cannot be
sufficiently achieved by the Member States, but can rather, by reason of the scale or effects of the action, be better
achieved at Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in
Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in that
Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives;
(38)
In order to allow for the timely adoption of delegated and implementing acts under Regulation (EU) 2023/956, this
Regulation should enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official
European Union.
(39)
Regulation (EU) 2023/956 should therefore be amended accordingly,
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
Article 1
Amendments to Regulation (EU) 2023/956
Regulation (EU) 2023/956 is amended as follows:
6/24
(9)9(9)
OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1, ELI: (1)
Article 2 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:
‘3.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, this Regulation shall not apply to goods to be moved or
used in the context of military activities pursuant to Article 1, point (49), of Commission Delegated Regulation
(*)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 of 28 July 2015 supplementing Regulation (EU)
No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards detailed rules concerning certain
provisions of the Union Customs Code (OJ L 343, 29.12.2015, p. 1, ELI: 2015/2446/oj).’;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘3a.
This Regulation shall not apply to:
(a) electricity generated on the continental shelf or in the exclusive economic zone of a Member State or of
a country or territory listed in points 1 and 2 of Annex III;
(b) hydrogen originating on the continental shelf or in the exclusive economic zone of a Member State or of
a country or territory listed in point 1 of Annex III.’;
(2)
the following article is inserted:
‘Article 2a
De minimis exemption
An importer, including any importer with the status of an authorised CBAM declarant, shall be exempted from
the obligations under this Regulation, where the net mass of the imported goods in a given calendar year does not
cumulatively exceed the single mass-based threshold laid down in point 1 of Annex VII (the “single mass-based
threshold”). That threshold shall apply to the total net mass of goods under all CN codes aggregated per importer and
per calendar year. In such a case, the importer, including an importer with the status of an authorised CBAM declarant,
shall declare that exemption in the relevant customs declaration.
Where, within the relevant calendar year, an importer, including any importer with the status of an authorised
CBAM declarant, exceeds the single mass-based threshold, the importer or the authorised CBAM declarant shall be
subject to all obligations under this Regulation in respect of all emissions embedded in all goods imported in that
calendar year.
By 30 April of each calendar year, the Commission shall assess, on the basis of the import data for the preceding
12 calendar months, whether the single mass-based threshold ensures that paragraph 1 of this Article applies to no
more than 1 % of the emissions embedded in the imported goods and processed products. The Commission shall
adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 28 to amend the single mass-based threshold by using the
methodology set out in point 2 of Annex VII, where the value of the resulting threshold deviates from the applicable
threshold by more than 15 tonnes. The amended single mass-based threshold shall apply from 1 January of the
following calendar year.
This Article shall not apply to imports of electricity or hydrogen.’;
(3)
Article 3 is amended as follows:
(a) point (15) is replaced by the following:
‘(15) “importer” means either the person lodging a customs declaration for release for free circulation of goods or
a bill of discharge in accordance with Article 175(5) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 in its own
name and on its own behalf or, where the customs declaration is lodged by an indirect customs
representative in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013, the person on whose behalf
such a declaration is lodged;’;
7/24
(b) point (31) is replaced by the following:
‘(31) “operator” means any person that operates or controls an installation in a third country, including a parent
company that controls an installation in a third country;’;
(4)
Article 5 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
Any importer established in a Member State shall, prior to importing goods into the customs territory of the
Union, apply for the status of authorised CBAM declarant (“application for an authorisation”).’;
(b) the following paragraphs are inserted:
‘1a.
An indirect customs representative shall obtain the status of authorised CBAM declarant prior to importing
goods into the customs territory of the Union. An indirect customs representative shall act as an authorised CBAM
declarant where the indirect customs representative is appointed by an importer in accordance with Article 18 of
Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 and agrees to act as authorised CBAM declarant, irrespective of whether the
importer is exempted from the obligations under this Regulation pursuant to Article 2a of this Regulation.
1b.
Where Article 2a applies, the importer shall submit the application for an authorisation in cases where that
importer expects to exceed the single mass-based threshold.’;
(c) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
‘2.
Where an importer is not established in a Member State, the indirect customs representative shall obtain the
status of authorised CBAM declarant, irrespective of whether the importer is exempted from the obligations under
this Regulation pursuant to Article 2a.’;
(d) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘2a.
Where an indirect customs representative acts as an authorised CBAM declarant on behalf of an importer,
the indirect customs representative shall be subject to the obligations applicable to the importer pursuant to this
Regulation, in respect of the goods imported on behalf of that importer by that indirect customs representative.’;
(e) paragraph 5 is amended as follows:
(i) point (g) is replaced by the following:
‘(g) estimated quantity of imports of goods into the customs territory of the Union by type of goods and
information on the Member States of import, for the calendar year during which the application is
submitted, and for the following calendar year;’;
(ii) the following point is inserted:
‘(ga) the number of the authorised economic operator (AEO) certificate, if the applicant has been granted the
status of an authorised economic operator in accordance with Article 38 of Regulation (EU)
No 952/2013;’;
(f) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘7a.
An authorised CBAM declarant may delegate the submission of CBAM declarations as referred to in
Article 6 to a person acting on behalf and in the name of that authorised CBAM declarant. The authorised CBAM
declarant shall remain responsible for compliance with the obligations applicable to it under this Regulation.’;
(5)
Article 6 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraphs 1 and 2 are replaced by the following:
8/24
By 30 September of each year, and for the first time in 2027 for the year 2026, each authorised CBAM
declarant shall use the CBAM registry referred to in Article 14 to submit a CBAM declaration for the preceding
calendar year.
The CBAM declaration shall contain the following information:
(a) the total quantity of each type of goods imported during the preceding calendar year, expressed in
megawatt-hours for electricity and in tonnes for other goods, including the imported goods below the single
mass-based threshold;
(b) the total embedded emissions in the goods referred to in point (a) of this paragraph, expressed in tonnes of
CO2e emissions per megawatt-hour of electricity or, for other goods, in tonnes of CO2e emissions per tonne of
each type of goods, calculated in accordance with Article 7 and, where the embedded emissions are determined
on the basis of actual emissions, verified in accordance with Article 8;
(c) the total number of CBAM certificates to be surrendered, corresponding to the total embedded emissions
referred to in point (b) of this paragraph after the reduction that is due on the account of the carbon price paid
in a third country in accordance with Article 9 and the adjustment necessary to reflect the extent to which EU
ETS allowances are allocated free of charge in accordance with Article 31;
(d) where applicable, copies of verification reports, issued by accredited verifiers, under Article 8 and Annex VI.’;
(b) paragraph 6 is replaced by the following:
‘6.
The Commission is empowered to adopt implementing acts concerning the standard format of the CBAM
declaration, including detailed information for each installation and country of origin or other third country and
type of goods to be reported, which supports the totals referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, in particular as
regards embedded emissions, the carbon price paid, the default carbon price for the purpose of Article 9(4), the
procedure for submitting the CBAM declaration via the CBAM registry, and the arrangements for surrendering the
CBAM certificates referred to in paragraph 2, point (c), of this Article, in accordance with Article 22(1), in
particular as regards the process and the selection by the authorised CBAM declarant of certificates to be
surrendered. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to
in Article 29(2).’;
(6)
Article 7 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
‘2.
Embedded emissions in goods other than electricity shall be determined:
(a) based on the actual emissions in accordance with the methods set out in points 2 and 3 of Annex IV; or
(b) by reference to default values in accordance with the methods set out in point 4.1 of Annex IV.’;
(b) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following:
‘5.
The authorised CBAM declarant shall keep records of the information required to calculate the embedded
emissions in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex V. Those records shall be sufficiently detailed
to enable verifiers accredited pursuant to Article 18, where applicable, to verify the embedded emissions in
accordance with Article 8 and Annex VI and to enable the Commission and the competent authority to review the
CBAM declaration in accordance with Article 19(2).’;
9/24
(c) in paragraph 7, point (a) is replaced by the following:
‘(a) the application of the elements of the calculation methods set out in Annex IV, including determining system
boundaries of production processes, which shall be aligned with those covered by the EU ETS, and relevant
input materials (precursors), emission factors, installation-specific values of actual emissions and default values
and their respective application to individual goods, as well as lay down methods to ensure the reliability of
data on the basis of which the default values shall be determined, including the level of detail of the data, and
including further specification of goods that are to be considered as “simple goods” and “complex goods” for
the purpose of point 1 of Annex IV. Those implementing acts shall also specify the elements of evidence
demonstrating that the criteria required to justify the use of actual emissions for imported electricity and for
electricity consumed in the production processes of goods for the purposes of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 that are
listed in points 5 and 6 of Annex IV are met; and’;
(7)
in Article 8, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
Where the embedded emissions are determined on the basis of actual emissions, the authorised CBAM declarant
shall ensure that the total embedded emissions declared in the CBAM declaration submitted pursuant to Article 6 are
verified by a verifier accredited pursuant to Article 18, based on the verification principles set out in Annex VI.’;
(8)
Article 9 is replaced by the following:
‘Article 9
Carbon price paid in a third country
Where the embedded emissions are determined on the basis of actual emissions, an authorised CBAM declarant
may claim in the CBAM declaration a reduction in the number of CBAM certificates to be surrendered in order to take
into account the carbon price paid in a third country for the declared embedded emissions. The reduction may be
claimed only if the carbon price has been effectively paid in a third country. In such a case, any rebate or other form of
compensation available in that country that would have resulted in a reduction of that carbon price shall be taken into
account.
The authorised CBAM declarant shall keep records of the documentation required to demonstrate that the
declared embedded emissions were subject to a carbon price in a third country that has been effectively paid as
referred to in paragraph 1. The authorised CBAM declarant shall in particular keep evidence related to any rebate or
other form of compensation available, in particular the references to the relevant legislation of that country. The
information contained in that documentation shall be certified by a person that is independent from the authorised
CBAM declarant and from the authorities of the third country. The name and contact information of that independent
person shall appear on the documentation. The authorised CBAM declarant shall also keep evidence of the actual
payment of the carbon price.
The authorised CBAM declarant shall keep the records referred to in paragraph 2 until the end of the fourth year
after the year during which the CBAM declaration has been or should have been submitted.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, an authorised CBAM declarant may claim, in the CBAM
declaration, a reduction in the number of CBAM certificates to be surrendered in order to take into account the carbon
price paid for the declared embedded emissions, by reference to yearly default carbon prices. In such a case, any rebate
or other form of compensation available in that country that would have resulted in a reduction of that default carbon
price shall be taken into account. The reduction may be claimed only where a carbon price was set by the rules
applicable in the third country and a yearly default carbon price can be determined, including on a conservative basis,
for that third country. Where the embedded emissions are determined on the basis of default values, a reduction may
be claimed only by a reference to yearly default carbon prices.
10/24
ELI: As from 2027, the Commission may, for third countries where carbon pricing rules are in place, determine and make
available, in the CBAM registry referred to in Article 14, the default carbon prices for those third countries and publish
the methodology for their calculation. The Commission shall do so on the basis of the best available data from reliable,
publicly available information and information provided by those third countries. The Commission shall take into
account any rebate or other form of compensation available in the relevant third country that would have resulted in
a reduction of the default carbon price.
The Commission is empowered to adopt implementing acts concerning the conversion of the yearly average
carbon price effectively paid in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article and of the yearly default carbon prices
determined in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article into a corresponding reduction of the number of CBAM
certificates to be surrendered. Those acts shall also govern the conversion of the carbon price expressed in foreign
currency into euro at the yearly average exchange rate, the evidence required of the actual payment of the carbon
price, examples of any relevant rebate or other form of compensation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the
qualifications of the independent person referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and the conditions to ascertain that
person’s independence. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure
referred to in Article 29(2).’;
(9)
Article 10 is replaced by the following:
‘Article 10
Registration of operators and of installations in third countries
The Commission shall, upon request by an operator of an installation located in a third country, register the
information on that operator and on its installation in the CBAM registry referred to in Article 14.
The request for registration referred to in paragraph 1 shall contain the following information to be included in
the CBAM registry upon registration:
(a) the name, address, corporate or activity registration number and contact information of the operator, and, if
applicable, of its controlling entities including the parent company of that operator, together with the supporting
documents;
(b) the location of each installation including the complete address and geographical coordinates expressed in
longitude and latitude, including six decimals;
(c) the main economic activity of the installation.
The Commission shall notify the operator of the registration in the CBAM registry. The registration shall be valid
for a period of five years from the date of its notification to the operator of the installation.
The operator shall inform the Commission without delay of any changes in the information referred to in
paragraph 2 arising after the registration, and the Commission shall update the relevant information in the CBAM
registry.
The operator shall:
(a) determine the embedded emissions calculated in accordance with the methods set out in Annex IV, by type of
goods produced at the installation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article;
(b) ensure that the embedded emissions referred to in point (a) of this paragraph are verified in accordance with the
verification principles set out in Annex VI by a verifier accredited pursuant to Article 18;
11/24
(c) keep a copy of the verification report as well as records of the information required to calculate the embedded
emissions in goods in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex V for a period of four years after the
verification has been performed, and, where applicable, a copy of the documentation required to demonstrate that
the declared embedded emissions were subject to a carbon price in a third country that has been effectively paid,
until the end of the fourth year after the year during which the independent person has certified the information
contained in that documentation in accordance with Article 9(2);
(d) determine, where applicable, the carbon price paid in a third country in accordance with Article 9, and upload
accompanying documentation and evidence.
The records referred to in paragraph 5, point (c), of this Article shall be sufficiently detailed to enable the
verification of the embedded emissions in accordance with Article 8 and Annex VI, and to enable the review, in
accordance with Article 19, of the CBAM declaration made by an authorised CBAM declarant to whom the relevant
information was disclosed in accordance with paragraph 7 of this Article.
An operator may disclose the information on the verification of embedded emissions and the carbon price paid
in a third country referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article to an authorised CBAM declarant. The authorised CBAM
declarant shall be entitled to use that disclosed information in order to fulfil the obligation referred to in Article 8.
The operator may, at any time, ask to be deregistered from the CBAM registry. The Commission shall, upon such
request, and after notifying the competent authorities, deregister the operator and delete the information on that
operator and on its installation from the CBAM registry, provided that such information is not necessary for the
review of CBAM declarations that have been submitted. The Commission may, after having given the operator
concerned the possibility to be heard and having consulted with the relevant competent authorities, also deregister the
information if the Commission finds that the information on that operator is no longer accurate. The Commission
shall inform the competent authorities of such deregistration.’;
(10) the following article is inserted:
‘Article 10a
Registration of accredited verifiers
Where an accreditation is granted in accordance with Article 18, the verifier shall submit a request for
registration in the CBAM registry to the competent authority of the Member State in which the national accreditation
body is established. The verifier shall submit the request for registration within two months of the date on which the
accreditation was granted, but not before 1 September 2026. The competent authority shall register the information
on the accredited verifier in the CBAM registry.
The request for registration in the CBAM registry referred in paragraph 1 shall at least contain the following
information:
(a) the name, and unique accreditation identification of the verifier;
(b) any scope of accreditation relevant for CBAM;
(c) the country of establishment of the verifier;
(d) the effective date of accreditation and expiry date of accreditation certificates relevant for CBAM;
(e) any information on administrative measures imposed on the verifier relevant for CBAM;
(f) copy of the accreditation certificate relevant for CBAM.
The information referred to in the first subparagraph shall be included in the CBAM registry upon the registration of
the verifier.
The competent authority shall notify the verifier of the registration in the CBAM registry. The competent
authority shall also notify, through the CBAM registry, the Commission and the other competent authorities of the
registration.
12/24
The verifier shall notify the competent authority of any changes to the information referred to in paragraph 2
arising after the registration in the CBAM registry. The competent authority shall ensure that the CBAM registry is
updated accordingly.
For the purpose of Article 10(5), point (b), the verifier shall use the CBAM registry to verify the embedded
emissions.
The competent authority shall deregister a verifier from the CBAM registry where that verifier is no longer
accredited pursuant Article 18 or where the verifier has not complied with the obligation laid down in paragraph 4 of
this Article. The competent authority shall notify the Commission and the other competent authorities of the
deregistration. The competent authority shall delete the information on that accredited verifier from the CBAM
registry provided that such information is not necessary for the review of CBAM declarations that have been
submitted.’;
(11) Article 11 is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 1, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following:
‘Each Member State shall designate the competent authority to carry out the functions and duties under this
Regulation, inform the Commission thereof and ensure that the competent authority has all the powers necessary
to perform those functions and duties.’;
(b) the following paragraph is added:
‘3.
For the purpose of the report referred to in Article 30(6), the competent authorities shall provide, at the
request of the Commission and on the basis of the questionnaire, relevant information on the implementation of
this Regulation.’;
(12) Article 14 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraphs 3 and 4 are replaced by the following:
‘3.
The CBAM registry shall contain, in a separate section of the registry, the information about the operators
and installations in third countries registered in accordance with Article 10(2) and the information about the
accredited verifiers registered in accordance with Article 10a.
The information in the CBAM registry referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be confidential, with the
exception of the names, addresses, corporate or activity registration numbers, contact information of the
operators, the location of installations in third countries and the information on accredited verifiers referred to in
Article 10a(2). An operator may choose not to have its name, address, corporate or activity registration number,
contact information and the location of its installations made accessible to the public. The public information in
the CBAM registry shall be made accessible by the Commission in an interoperable format.’;
(b) paragraph 6 is replaced by the following:
‘6.
The Commission shall adopt implementing acts concerning the infrastructure and specific processes and
procedures of the CBAM registry, including the risk analysis referred to in Article 15, the electronic databases
containing the information referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the procedures and the technical
credentials for the delegation referred to in Article 5(7a), the data of the accounts in the CBAM registry referred to
in Article 16, the transmission to the CBAM registry of the information on the sale and repurchase of CBAM
certificates referred to in Article 20, the cross-check of information referred to in Article 25(3) and the information
referred to in Article 25a(3). Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination
procedure referred to in Article 29(2).’;
(13) Article 17 is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 1, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following subparagraph:
‘Before granting the status of authorised CBAM declarant, the competent authority may consult relevant competent
authorities or the Commission via the CBAM registry on the fulfilment of the criteria set out in paragraph 2. The
consultation shall not exceed 15 calendar days.’;
13/24
(b) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following:
‘5.
For the purpose of complying with the criteria set out in paragraph 2, point (b), of this Article, the
competent authority shall require the provision of a guarantee if the applicant was not established throughout the
two financial years preceding the year when the application in accordance with Article 5(1) was submitted.
The competent authority shall fix the amount of such guarantee at the amount, calculated as the aggregate value of
the number of CBAM certificates that the authorised CBAM declarant would have to surrender in accordance with
Article 22 in respect of the imports of goods reported in accordance with Article 5(5), point (g), taking into
account the adjustment necessary to reflect the extent to which EU ETS allowances are allocated free of charge in
accordance with Article 31. The guarantee provided shall be a bank guarantee, payable at first demand, by
a financial institution operating in the Union or another form of guarantee which provides equivalent assurance.’;
(c) paragraph 7 is replaced by the following:
‘7.
The competent authority shall release the guarantee immediately after 30 September of the second year in
which the authorised CBAM declarant has surrendered CBAM certificates in accordance with Article 22.’;
(d) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘7a.
By way of derogation from Article 4, where an importer or an indirect customs representative has
submitted an application in accordance with Article 5 by 31 March 2026, such an importer or indirect customs
representative may provisionally continue to import goods until the competent authority takes a decision under
this Article.
Where the competent authority refuses to grant the authorisation in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article,
the competent authority shall establish, within one month of the date of the decision, the emissions embedded in
the goods imported between 1 January 2026 and the date of that decision on the basis of the information
communicated in accordance with Article 25(3) and by reference to default values in accordance with the methods
set out in Annex IV, and on the basis of any other relevant information.
Those established emissions shall be used for the calculation of penalties in accordance with Article 26(2a).’;
(e) in paragraph 8, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following:
‘Before revoking the status of authorised CBAM declarant, the competent authority shall give the authorised CBAM
declarant the possibility to be heard. The competent authority may consult relevant competent authorities or the
Commission via the CBAM registry on the conditions and criteria for the revocation. The consultation shall not
exceed 15 calendar days.’;
(f) in paragraph 10, point (e) is replaced by the following:
‘(e) the specific deadlines, scope and format of the consultation procedure referred to in paragraphs 1 and 8 of this
Article.’;
(14) Article 18 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 1 is deleted;
(b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
‘2.
A national accreditation body may, on request, accredit a legal person to be a verifier for the purpose of this
Regulation where it considers, on the basis of the documentation submitted to it, that such person has the capacity
to apply the verification principles referred to in Annex VI when performing the tasks of verification of the
embedded emissions pursuant to Articles 8 and 10. Where the legal person is accredited in accordance with
Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2067 for a relevant group of activities, the national accreditation body shall
take such accreditation into account for the assessment of the qualifications of an accredited verifier that are
necessary to perform the verification for the purpose of this Regulation.’;
14/24
ELI: (15) in Article 19(3), the second subparagraph is replaced by the following:
‘The Commission shall also facilitate the exchange of information with competent authorities about fraudulent
activities, the conclusions reached pursuant to Article 25a and the penalties imposed in accordance with Article 26.’;
(16) Article 20 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
From 1 February 2027, a Member State shall sell CBAM certificates on a common central platform to
authorised CBAM declarants established in that Member State.’;
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:
‘3.
The information on the sale and repurchase of CBAM certificates in the common central platform shall be
transferred to the CBAM registry at the end of each working day.’;
(c) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘5a.
The costs incurred in connection with the establishment, operation and management of the common
central platform shall be financed by fees payable by authorised CBAM declarants.
For the duration of the first joint public procurement contract for the establishment, operation and management
of the common central platform, those costs shall initially be borne by the general budget of the Union. To that
end, the revenues generated by the fees shall constitute internal assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3),
point (a), of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*). Those
revenues shall be assigned to cover the costs of the establishment, operation and management of the common
central platform. Any revenue remaining after covering those costs shall be assigned to the Union budget.
For the duration of the subsequent joint procurement contracts for the operation and management of the
common central platform, the Commission shall adopt a delegated act in accordance with Article 28,
supplementing this Regulation, in order to determine that the fees payable by authorised CBAM declarants shall
directly finance the costs of the operation and management of the common central platform.
(*)
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 September 2024
on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L, 2024/2509, 26.9.2024, ELI: http://
(d) paragraph 6 is replaced by the following:
‘6.
The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 28 supplementing this
Regulation by further specifying the timing, administration, structure and level of fees and other aspects related to
the management of the sale and repurchase of CBAM certificates, as well as the organisation and use of the
common central platform, seeking coherence with the procedures laid down in Commission Delegated Regulation
(EU) 2023/2830 (*). The delegated acts shall ensure that the organisation and use of the common central platform
is cost-efficient, that the level of fees is set so as to strictly cover the relevant costs and that undue administrative
costs are avoided.
(*)
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2830 of 17 October 2023 supplementing Directive
2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down rules on the timing,
administration and other aspects of auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances (OJ L, 2023/2830,
(17) Article 21 is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 1, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following:
‘1.
The Commission shall calculate the price of CBAM certificates as the average of the closing prices of EU ETS
allowances on the auction platform, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Delegated Regulation (EU)
2023/2830, for each calendar week.’;
15/24
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘1a.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall calculate the price of CBAM certificates that
corresponds to the embedded emissions declared in respect of the year 2026 in accordance with Article 6(2), point
(b), as the quarterly average of the closing prices of EU ETS allowances on the auction platform, in accordance with
the procedures laid down in Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2830, of the quarter of importation of the goods in
which those emissions are embedded.’;
(c) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:
‘3.
The Commission is empowered to adopt implementing acts on the application of the methodology provided
for in paragraphs 1 and 1a of this Article to calculate the price of CBAM certificates and the practical arrangements
for the publication of that price. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination
procedure referred to in Article 29(2).’;
(18) Article 22 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
By 30 September of each year, and for the first time in 2027 for the year 2026, the authorised CBAM
declarant shall surrender via the CBAM registry a number of CBAM certificates that corresponds to the embedded
emissions declared in accordance with Article 6(2), point (c), and verified in accordance with Article 8, for the
calendar year preceding the surrender. The Commission shall remove surrendered CBAM certificates from the
CBAM registry. The authorised CBAM declarant shall ensure that the required number of CBAM certificates is
available on its account in the CBAM registry.’;
(b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
‘2.
From 2027, the authorised CBAM declarant shall ensure that the number of CBAM certificates on its
account in the CBAM registry at the end of each quarter corresponds to at least 50 % of the embedded emissions in
all goods it has imported since the beginning of the calendar year determined by reference to either of the
following:
(a) default values in accordance with the methods set out in Annex IV without the mark-up as referred to in point
4.1 of that Annex; or
(b) the number of CBAM certificates surrendered in accordance with paragraph 1 for the calendar year preceding
the year of the surrender, provided that the customs declaration for the import of goods refers to the same
goods by CN code and countries of origin as the CBAM declaration submitted in the calendar year preceding
the current year.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the adjustment for free allocation referred to in Article 31 shall be taken into
account.’;
(c) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘2a.
The authorised CBAM declarant shall comply with the obligation laid down in paragraph 2 by the end of
the quarter following that in which the single mass-based threshold is exceeded.’;
(19) Article 23 is amended as follows:
(a) in paragraph 1, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following:
‘The Commission shall repurchase the excess CBAM certificates through the common central platform referred to
in Article 20 on behalf of the Member State where the authorised CBAM declarant is established. The authorised
CBAM declarant shall submit the repurchase request by 31 October of each year during which CBAM certificates
were surrendered.’;
(b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following:
16/24
The number of CBAM certificates subject to repurchase as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be limited to the
total number of CBAM certificates that the authorised CBAM declarant had an obligation to purchase pursuant to
Article 22(2) during the calendar year of the purchase of the CBAM certificates.
Where an authorised CBAM declarant who has been purchasing CBAM certificates in a calendar year on the basis
of an expectation of exceeding the single mass-based threshold does not exceed such a threshold, all those CBAM
certificates shall be repurchased upon request of the authorised CBAM declarant pursuant to paragraph 1 of this
Article.’;
(c) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘2a.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2, CBAM certificates purchased in 2027 in respect of the embedded
emissions for the year 2026 may only be repurchased in 2027.’;
(20) Article 24 is replaced by the following:
‘Article 24
Cancellation of CBAM certificates
On 1 November of each year, the Commission shall cancel any CBAM certificates that were purchased during the
year before the previous calendar year and that remained in the account of an authorised CBAM declarant in the
CBAM registry. Those CBAM certificates shall be cancelled without any compensation.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, on 1 November 2027, the Commission shall cancel any CBAM
certificates purchased in respect of the embedded emissions for the year 2026. Those CBAM certificates shall be
cancelled without any compensation.
Where the number of CBAM certificates to be surrendered is contested in a pending dispute in a Member State,
the Commission shall suspend the cancellation of the CBAM certificates to the extent corresponding to the disputed
amount. The competent authority of the Member State where the authorised CBAM declarant is established shall
communicate without delay any relevant information to the Commission.’;
(21) in Article 25 paragraphs 1 to 4 are replaced by the following:
‘1.
Without prejudice to Article 2a, the customs authorities shall not allow the importation of goods by any person
other than an authorised CBAM declarant.
The customs authorities shall periodically and automatically, in particular by means of the surveillance
mechanism established pursuant to Article 56(5) of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013, communicate to the Commission
specific information on the goods declared for importation. That information shall include the EORI number or the
form of identification declared in accordance with Article 6(2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446, of the
importer or of the authorised CBAM declarant as well as the CBAM account number of the authorised CBAM
declarant, the eight-digit CN code of the goods, the quantity, the country of origin, the date of the customs declaration
and the customs procedure. Where the importer has no EORI number, the customs authorities shall also communicate
the name, address and, where available, contact information of the importer to the Commission.
The Commission shall communicate the information referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article periodically to the
competent authority of the Member State where the authorised CBAM declarant or the importer is established and
shall, for each CBAM declarant, cross-check that information with the data in the CBAM registry pursuant to
Article 14.
The customs authorities may communicate, in accordance with Article 12(1) of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013,
confidential information acquired by the customs authorities in the course of performing their duties, or provided to
the customs authorities on a confidential basis, to the Commission and to the competent authority of the Member
State that has granted the status of the authorised CBAM declarant or to the competent authority of the Member State
where the authorised CBAM declarant or importer is established.’;
17/24
(22) the following article is inserted:
‘Article 25a
Monitoring and enforcement of the single mass-based threshold
The Commission shall monitor the imports of goods for the purpose of monitoring the compliance with the
single mass-based threshold.
The competent authorities of the Member State where the importer is established may also monitor the compliance
with the single mass-based threshold.
The Commission shall periodically and automatically exchange with competent authorities the information necessary
for the monitoring of importers via the CBAM registry. Such information shall include a list of importers that exceed
90 % of the single mass-based threshold.
Where the Commission considers, based on a preliminary assessment and the information that the customs
authorities have communicated to the Commission pursuant to Article 25(2), that an importer has exceeded the single
mass-based threshold, it shall communicate that information as well as the basis for its preliminary assessment to the
competent authority of the Member State where the importer is established.
The competent authority may request that the importer or the Commission provides documentary evidence necessary
to assess whether the importer has exceeded the single mass-based threshold. Where the documentary evidence is
insufficient to assess whether the importer has exceeded that threshold, the competent authorities may request
additional documentary evidence from the customs authorities if such evidence is available.
Where the competent authority concludes that an importer that is not an authorised CBAM declarant has
exceeded the single mass-based threshold, it shall without undue delay adopt a decision to that effect. The decision
shall state the reasons on which it is based and shall include information on the right to appeal. The competent
authority shall inform the importer of the obligations applicable under this Regulation including, where applicable,
the obligation to obtain the status of an authorised CBAM declarant in accordance with Article 5 prior to importing
any further goods. The competent authority shall also notify the customs authorities and the Commission of that
decision via the CBAM registry.
Where an importer is represented by one or more indirect customs representatives and exceeds the single mass-based
threshold, the competent authority shall inform the indirect customs representatives appointed thereof in accordance
with Article 5(1a) or 5(2).
The submission of an appeal against a decision determining that the importer has exceeded the single mass-based
threshold shall not have suspensive effect.
For the purpose of determining whether an importer has exceeded the single mass-based threshold, a competent
authority shall disregard a practice, arrangement or a series thereof which has been put into place for the main
purpose or one of the main purposes of falling below the single mass-based threshold and which is non-genuine.
A practice, arrangement or a series thereof shall be regarded as non-genuine where, taking into account all relevant
facts and circumstances, it cannot be considered to have been put in place for valid commercial reasons related to the
economic activity of the importer.
For the purposes of Article 17(2), point (a), and Article 26(2a), where the competent authority concludes that the
importer has engaged in a practice, arrangement, or a series thereof, that is regarded to be non-genuine, the importer
shall be considered to have been involved in a serious infringement of this Regulation.
18/24
For the purpose of the monitoring under this Article, the Commission shall periodically, at least once per
calendar year or whenever necessary, identify specific risk factors and points for attention, based on a risk analysis in
relation to the single mass-based threshold, taking into account information contained in the CBAM registry, data
communicated by customs authorities in accordance with Article 25 and other relevant information sources,
including irregularities identified as a result of the controls carried out in accordance with Article 15(1). Those risk
factors and points for attention shall be communicated to the competent authorities and, where relevant, the customs
authorities.’;
(23) Article 26 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
‘1.
An authorised CBAM declarant who fails to surrender, by 30 September of each year, the number of CBAM
certificates that corresponds to the emissions embedded in goods imported during the preceding calendar year
shall be held liable for the payment of a penalty. Such a penalty shall be identical to the excess emissions penalty
set out in Article 16(3) of Directive 2003/87/EC and increased pursuant to Article 16(4) of that Directive,
applicable in the year of importation of the goods. Such a penalty shall apply for each CBAM certificate that the
authorised CBAM declarant has not surrendered.’;
(b) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘1a
By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, where an authorised CBAM declarant fails to
surrender the correct number of CBAM certificates as a result of incorrect information provided by a third party,
namely an operator, a verifier or an independent person certifying the carbon price documentation referred to in
Article 9(2), the competent authority may reduce the penalty referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The penalty
thus imposed shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive and shall take into account in particular the duration,
gravity, scope, intentional nature or repetition of the non-compliance or the level of cooperation of the authorised
CBAM declarant with the competent authority.’;
(c) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘2a.
Paragraph 2 shall also apply to importers other than authorised CBAM declarants, where they exceed the
single mass-based threshold. For that purpose, the entirety of the emissions embedded in the goods imported by
such an importer in the relevant calendar year shall be taken into account. The payment of the penalty shall release
the importer from the obligation to submit a CBAM declaration and to surrender CBAM certificates in respect of
those imports.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the competent authority may reduce the
penalty provided in paragraph 2 of this Article where an importer exceeded the single mass-based threshold by no
more than 10 % of that threshold or in cases referred to in Article 17(7a). Such a penalty shall be effective,
proportionate and dissuasive and shall not be lower than the penalty provided in paragraph 1. The payment of the
penalty shall release the importer from the obligation to submit a CBAM declaration and to surrender CBAM
certificates in respect of those imports.’;
(d) paragraph 3 is replaced with the following:
‘3.
The payment of the penalty in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 1a shall not release the authorised CBAM
declarant from the obligation to surrender the outstanding number of CBAM certificates in a given year.’;
(e) the following paragraph is inserted:
‘4a.
For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the competent authority shall calculate the total
number of CBAM certificates that should have been surrendered, based on the net mass of the imported goods and
by reference to the embedded emissions determined by default values in accordance with the methods set out in
Annex IV and taking into account the adjustment for free allocation as referred to in Article 31.’;
19/24
(24) in Article 27(2), point (b) is replaced by the following:
‘(b) artificially splitting imports, including via non-genuine arrangements, to avoid exceeding the single mass-based
threshold.’;
(25) Article 28 is amended as follows:
(a) paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following:
‘2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles 2(10) and (11), Article 2a(3), Article 18(3),
Article 20(5a) and (6) and Article 27(6) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of five years from
20 October 2025. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than
nine months before the end of the five-year period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for further
periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later
than three months before the end of each period.
The delegation of power referred to in Article 2(10) and (11), Article 2a(3), Article 18(3), Article 20(5a) and
(6) and Article 27(6) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council.’;
(b) paragraph 7 is replaced by the following:
‘7.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 2(10) and (11), Article 2a(3), Article 18(3), Article 20(5a) and
(6) or Article 27(6) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament
or by the Council within a period of two months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and to the
Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the
Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by two months at the initiative of the
European Parliament or of the Council.’;
(26) Article 30(6), second subparagraph, point (b), is amended as follows:
(a) point (i) is replaced by the following:
‘(i) the governance system, including an assessment of the implementation and administration of the guarantees
and the authorisation of CBAM declarants by Member States;’;
(b) the following point is added:
‘(v) the application of the single mass-based threshold, including the possibility of increasing that threshold and of
introducing a supplementary consignment-based threshold.’;
(27) Article 36(2) is amended as follows:
(a) point (b) is replaced by the following:
‘Article 2(2) and Articles 2a, 4, 6 to 9, 10a, 15, 19 and 21, Article 22(1) and 22(3) and Articles 23 to 27 and 31
shall apply from 1 January 2026.’;
(b) the following points are added:
‘(c) Article 22(2) shall apply from 1 January 2027;
(d) Article 20(1), (3), (4) and (5) shall apply from 1 February 2027.’;
(28) in Annex I, the CN code ‘2507 00 80 – Other kaolinic clays’ is replaced by ‘ex 2507 00 80 – Other kaolinic clays
except non-calcined kaolinic clays’;
(29) in Annex II, the following table is added:
‘Electricity
CN code
Greenhouse gas
2716 00 00 – Electrical energy
Carbon dioxide’
20/24
ELI: (30) Annex IV is amended in accordance with Annex I to this Regulation;
(31) in point 2 of Annex V, the following point is added:
‘(e) information and the method used to calculate the embedded emissions.’;
(32) in point 2, point (k), of Annex VI, point (iii) is replaced by the following:
‘(iii) the identification of the installations where the input material (precursor) has been produced and the actual
emissions from the production of that material;’;
(33) a new Annex VII as set out in Annex II to this Regulation is added.
Article 2
Entry into force
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official
Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 8 October 2025.
For the European Parliament
The President
For the Council
The President
21/24
Annex IV is amended as follows:
(1) point 3 is replaced by the following:
‘3. DETERMINATION OF ACTUAL EMBEDDED EMISSIONS FOR COMPLEX GOODS
For determining the specific actual embedded emissions of complex goods produced in a given installation, the
following equation is to be applied:
Where:
AttrEmg
are the attributed emissions of goods g,
ALg
is the activity level of the goods, being the quantity of goods produced in the reporting period in
that installation, and
EEInpMat
are the embedded emissions of the input materials (precursors) consumed in the production
process. Only input materials (precursors) listed in Annex I and originating in third countries
and territories that are not exempted pursuant to point 1 of Annex III are to be considered. The
relevant EEInpMat are calculated as follows:
Where:
is the mass of input material (precursor) i used in the production process, and
SEEi
are the specific embedded emissions for the input material (precursor) i. For SEEi the operator of
the installation shall use the value of emissions resulting from the installation where the input
material (precursor) was produced, provided that that installation’s data can be adequately
measured.’;
(2) point 4 is replaced by the following.:
‘4. DETERMINATION OF DEFAULT VALUES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 7(2) AND (3)
For the purpose of determining default values, only actual values shall be used for the determination of embedded
emissions. In the absence of actual data, literature values may be used. Default values shall be determined based on
the best available data. Best available data shall be based on reliable and publicly available information. Default
values shall be revised periodically through the implementing acts adopted pursuant to Article 7(7) based on the
most up-to-date and reliable information, including on the basis of information provided by a third country or
group of third countries.’;
(3) point 4.1 is replaced by the following:
‘4.1. Default values referred to in Article 7(2)
Default values shall be set at the average emission intensity of each exporting country and for each of the goods
listed in Annex I other than electricity, increased by a proportionately designed mark-up. This mark-up shall be
determined in the implementing acts adopted pursuant to Article 7(7) and shall be set at an appropriate level to
ensure the environmental integrity of the CBAM, building on the most up-to-date and reliable information,
including on the basis of information gathered during the transitional period. When reliable data for the exporting
country cannot be applied for a type of goods, the default values shall be based on the average emission intensity
of the 10 exporting countries with the highest emission intensities for which reliable data can be applied for that
type of goods.’;
22/24
ELI: (4) in point 7, the second paragraph is replaced by the following:
‘Where declarants for goods produced in a third country, a group of third countries or a region within a third country
can demonstrate, on the basis of reliable data, that alternative region-specific adaptations of default values are lower
than the default values determined by the Commission, such region-specific adaptations can be used.’
23/24
The following Annex VII is added:
The single mass-based threshold
1. The single mass-based threshold referred to in Article 2a shall be set at 50 tonnes of net mass.
2. For the purpose of Article 2a(3), the following methodology shall apply:
chosen such that
Where:
99 %
is the target share of emissions;
is the mass-threshold in tonnes allowing to capture a given target share of emissions;
Annual emissions per importer
qi,j
is the quantity of imports in tonnes by importer i of the CN code j;
is the number of CN codes imported by importer i among the four sectors considered (aluminium,
cement, fertilisers, iron and steel);
EIj
is the emission intensity for CN code j (1);
Total emissions:
the total emissions in CO2 of the four CBAM sectors considered, that is the sum of corresponding
emissions for all importers:
where N is the number of importers;
the total quantity in tonnes of goods listed in Annex I imported by importer i;
is an indicator function equal to 1 when
(that is, when an importer is importing quantities
higher than the mass-threshold
), 0 otherwise.
To capture uncertainty over changes in trade patterns while maintaining the environmental objective of this Regulation,
a margin of 0,25 percentage points is added to the above target share of emissions.
The single mass-based threshold shall be rounded to the nearest ten.’.
24/24
(1)1(1)
The emission intensities Ej are based on default values (without mark-up) for emissions published for the transitional period. For
cement and fertiliser products, direct emissions and indirect emissions are considered; for aluminium and iron and steel products,
only direct emissions are considered. For future updates of the single mass-based threshold, the default values shall be set in
accordance with the methods set out in Annex IV without the mark-up as referred to in point 4.1 of Annex IV.