Vol.:(0123456789)
Information Systems Frontiers Towards Industry 5.0 Challenges for The Textile and Apparel Supply
Chain for The Smart, Sustainable, and Collaborative Industry
in Emerging Economies
Yigit Kazancoglu1  · Sachin Kumar Mangla2,3 · Yalcin Berberoglu4 · Cisem Lafci1 · Jitender Madaan5
Accepted: 22 August 2023
© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023
Industrial revolutions often seek to strengthen the separation of human and machine labor by going one step further, toward
automation and digitalization, and the transfer of tough and dangerous occupations to robots. As it strives to include robots
interaction and provides some possibilities and challenges for firms. Therefore, this article mainly focuses on studying and
concretely examining the challenges faced by businesses transitioning from I4.0 to I5.0 by providing case examples from
the textile and apparel supply chain. After a detailed review of the current literature related to the I5.0 challenges, the I5.0
challenges were listed in general. Then, the fuzzy Decision-making trial and evaluation laboratory approach has adopted
into the challenges to reveal causal interactions between them thus, prioritizing the substantial challenges to be focused on
to influence the entire textile and apparel supply chain.
Industry 5.0 · Collaborative industry · Human-centric · Challenges · Industrial revolutions · Human-machine
interaction
1 Introduction
Industrial revolutions are intended for separating worker’s
and automated device's labor and pass over occupations
to robotics that are tough and risky for the workers (Fazal
et al., 2022). The First Industrial Revolution in history,
which could be linked return to the 1780s, began in regard
to the production of mechanical energy using water, fossil
fuels, and steam. In the 1870s, firms using assembly lines
and mass manufacturing embraced electrical energy which
is referred to Second Industrial Revolution. Then, the Third
Industrial Revolution initiated the mechanization idea in
industrial industries in the 1970s using information technol-
ogy (IT). In the fourth period of the revolution, the Internet
of Things (IoT) and cloud computing are utilized to develop
cyber-physical systems, which serve as a real-time interface
between physical and virtual realms.
The industry 4.0 term (I4.0) was initially introduced in
Germany in 2011. The notion I4.0, "smart manufacturing,"
and "industrial internet of things" (IoT) all referred to the
combination of data and operational technology in order to
track physical production methods and utilize data to gen-
Universite Caddesi, No:37-39, Bornova, 35100 Izmir,
Turkey
Operations Management, Jindal Global Business School,
Sonipat, Haryana, India
Plymouth, UK
Universite Caddesi, No:37-39, Bornova, 35100 Izmir, Turkey
of Technology Delhi, 110016 Delhi, India Information Systems Frontiers
save operational costs (Tay et al., 2021). In other words, inte-
grating technologies such as the Internet of Services (IoS)
and the Internet of Things (IoT) into production operations
are named I4.0, which is the fourth industrial revolution
(Yüksel, 2020). IoT, IoS, Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS),
and Smart Factories, Big Data Analytics (BTA), Data Min-
ing (DM), Blockchain, Augmented Reality, Artificial Intel-
ligence (AI) are I4.0's main building blocks.
The deployment of I4.0 has benefited from many tech-
nologies, including Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality,
Digital Twins, COBOTS (collaborative robots), Computer
Simulations, etc. These technologies support the develop-
ment of supply chains, smart products, and manufacturing
processes Therefore, firms have undergone a digital trans-
formation using the four technological pillars which are arti-
ficial intelligence (AI), blockchain technologies (BT), cloud
computing, and big data. With all these advances I4.0 con-
tribute to the supply chain; people are expected to contribute
high-value activities to manufacturing standards during the
upcoming industrial revolution. The Fifth Industrial Revo-
lution is already underway, even if I4.0 is still in its youth.
Although we proceed to realize the advantages of the
“smart production” era, practitioners and researchers have
recently started highlighting the vital role that labors play as
a component of human-centric Cyber-Physical Production
System (CPPS) (Krugh & Mears, 2018), along with the sig-
nificance of developing industrial processes and systems for
incorporating and encapsulating social aspects (Longo et al.,
2020; Hancock et al., 2013). Therefore, we can claim that
in contrast to previous industrial revolutions, which focused
on the economical side of sustainability, Industry 5.0 (I5.0)
emphasizes Human-oriented social expectations (Leng
the industry's future toward a strong, resilient, and human-
centered manufacturing system (Breque et al., 2021), which
presents a vision of the industry's flourishing development
(Huang et al., 2022).
The rise of concepts such as IoT and I5.0 presents new
opportunities and difficulties for businesses (Aslam et al.,
2020) and human-machine interaction (HMI) because it
will put robotics very close to every human's daily life.
(Nahavandi, 2019). Industry 5.0 can be described as an
idea that developed a few years ago and has been actively
debated amongst stakeholders from research organizations
and financing organizations (Huang et al., 2022). I5.0 is a
stride forward in the refining of human-machine interaction
(Sharma et al., 2022; Faruqi, 2019). The main objective
of I5.0 is to change existing manufacturing factories and
develop these factories into new digitized systems in order
to improve/superior manufacturing facilities in which people
communicate with machines (Sharma et al., 2022; Javaid
et al., 2020).
I5.0 has various benefits. For instance, it can boost pro-
duction efficiency through outsourcing routine and dull
work to intelligent machines and those requiring critical-
thinking humans. (Maddikunta et al., 2022). Moreover,
I5.0 has the potential to considerably raise industrial pro-
ductivity and encourage adaptation amidst people and
intelligent machines, allowing for interactive account-
ability and continuous tracking of operations. Aside from
the advantages in the manufacturing industry, I5.0 also
has advantages in terms of sustainability since it strives
to establish a renewable energy-powered sustainable sys-
tem (Adel, 2022). As a result, we can claim that I5.0 has
gained traction in recent years as a human-centric design
approach in which people and cobots engage in a shared
working environment, attempting to overcome the issues
revealed by I4.0. (Huang et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2021).
This study stands out for its attention to the difficulties
involved in moving from I4.0 to I5.0 within the textile
and apparel supply chain while providing sector-specific
insights and perspectives. While the majority of the cur-
rent literature on I5.0 concentrates on the future agenda,
advantages, and promising solutions, our research takes
a practical approach by analyzing the actual difficulties
faced by businesses in this particular industry. Addi-
tionally, this study introduces the use of the DEMATEL
method with fuzzy logic to order the identified problems
and identify the relationships that cause them, offering a
methodical way to comprehend the intricate relationships
at play. With the help of this novel methodology, we hope
to provide a thorough analysis that will allow us to identify
and rank the most pressing problems that must be solved to
successfully apply I5.0 throughout the textile and apparel
supply chain. This study also incorporates a number of
complementary theories on industrial revolutions, smart
manufacturing, human-machine interaction, and sustain-
ability to provide a solid theoretical foundation for our
analysis and to improve the broadness and accuracy of
our conclusions. This study advances knowledge in the
area of I5.0 and offers beneficial insights for practitioners,
researchers, and stakeholders in the textile and apparel
industry by fusing these original elements sector-specific
focus, novel methodology, and comprehensive theoretical
framework.
Under this motivation, I5.0 contains various promising
opportunities with different technology alternatives for
many industries and it is an emerging field that requires
more research attention. Most of the studies in current
literature related to I5.0 technologies generally points out
the future agenda with the benefits, advantages, promising
solutions, and prospect by looking at retrospect. Thereat,
this article primarily focuses on studying and concretely
applying the challenges faced by businesses transitioning Information Systems Frontiers
from I4.0 to I5.0 by providing case examples from the
textile and apparel supply chain. For this purpose, exist-
ing literature related to I5.0 technologies scrutinized, and
the challenges that I5.0 technologies contain have been
revealed to examine. After determining the I5.0 challenges
in general, because of the limited literature, the Decision-
making trial and evaluation laboratory (DEMATEL)
method with fuzzy logic has adopted into the challenges
to reveal causal interactions amidst them thus, prioritiz-
ing the substantial challenges to be focused to influence
the entire textile and apparel supply chain. For this aim,
related Research Questions (RQs) are submitted below:
RQ1: What are the major forthcoming I5.0 challenges for
organizations to overcome in order to successfully transi-
tion from I4.0 to I5.0?
RQ2: How might I5.0 technology help with these chal-
lenges in the textile and apparel supply chain?
By addressing these research questions, we hope to shed
light on the specific difficulties organizations may encounter
as they make the switch to I5.0 as well as the potential solu-
tions offered by I5.0 technologies. Additionally, rather than
solely relying on predictions for the future, our study aims
to contribute to the developing field of I5.0 by concentrating
on real-world applications and case studies. This study has
the potential to help organizations adopt I5.0 technologies in
a successful manner while taking into account the particular
traits of the textile and apparel supply chain.
The search requests were carefully refined based on input
from and expert feedback to ensure the literature review's
relevance and currency. In the beginning, a thorough search
strategy was created to find relevant research concerning
Industry 5.0 and its difficulties. However, in order to capture
the most recent advancements and take into account the field's
dynamic nature, industry, academic, and research organiza-
tion experts are consulted in the textile and apparel sector.
The search requests were specifically targeted at recent pub-
lications, cutting-edge research, and emerging trends in the
context of the textile and apparel supply chain through their
valuable insights and suggestions. By incorporating advice
from experts, we made sure that our literature review took into
account the most recent and pertinent sources, improving the
precision and applicability of our findings. This commitment
to providing a thorough and current review of the literature,
addressing the uniqueness of the research gap, and offering
beneficial insights that are in line with the changing conditions
of Industry 5.0 in the textile and apparel sector is demonstrated
by the iterative process of tailoring the search requests based
on expert feedback.
The remaining of this research study is as followings:
Section two investigates the literature for current studies of
I5.0 and compiles a list of challenges. The third section of
the study points out the methodology of the paper, the fuzzy
logic, and the steps of DEMATEL. The fourth section contains
a real-life case example and the implementation stage of the
study. Depending on that the results of the case study will be
enlightened and explained further in section five. The results
of the study will be discussed, and implications will be given
in section six. Lastly, the study will be concluded with some
remarks.
2  Literature Review
2.1  Challenges of the I5.0 Technologies
Despite the challenges of I4.0 still plaguing enterprises,
Industry 5.0, the following industrial revolution, is already
upon us thanks to incredibly swift technological advance-
ments in the sectors of information technology and IoT
(Aslam et al., 2020; Paschek et al., 2019). The foundation
of I5.0 is the idea of robot and human collaboration, where
they cooperate rather than compete to achieve a common
goal (Sharma et al., 2022; Breque et al., 2021; Nahavandi,
2019). Additionally, the idea of I5.0 provides a unique
viewpoint and highlights the significance of innovation
and research in aiding the industry in its long-term impact
on society (Xu et al., 2021; Breque et al., 2021). Consider-
ing this, I5.0 is currently being envisioned as a means of
merging the particular uniqueness of expertise of people
with powerful, wise, and precise technology (Maddikunta
et al., 2022). However, with its new perspective, I5.0 will
assist to overcome the problem of a mismatch between
industrial and societal requirements (Leng et al., 2022). In
this context, the challenges that arose with the emergence
and development of the I5.0 has scrutinized throughout the
existing literature and listed below (See Table 1).
Human-robot collaboration (HRC) (Li et al., 2021; Liu
& Wang, 2020) might be one of the most promising and
difficult research topics for achieving human centricity
in industrial systems (Huang et al., 2022). It is a process
that combines and complements human intellect with
machine intelligence, allowing for never-ending invention
while eliminating the need for a massive sensory network,
storage systems, and processing (Huang et al., 2022; Li
et al., 2022). Therefore, if the proper limitations are not in
place, human-robot collaboration could result in several
problems; as a result, legislation that governs robot and
human collaboration should explicitly define the differ-
ence between a machine and a robot (Demir et al., 2019).
Legalization and standardization will aid in preventing any
significant problems between firms, society, and technol-
ogy. Despite the existence of generic norms for innovation
policy, automation, industry norms, laws, and regulations
are still necessary for the full adoption of every industrial Information Systems Frontiers
Table 1  The Challenges of Industry 5.0
Number of
challenges
Challenges
Description
References
Standardization and legalization of technologies
I5.0 technologies need to be standardized and made legal
in order to ensure the safe and responsible integration of
cutting-edge technologies like AI, robotics, and IoT into
industrial processes, which is difficult given how complex
and dynamic these technologies are.
(Sharma et al., 2022; Nahavandi, 2019; Xu et al., 2018; Leitão
et al., 2016)
Interoperability in semantics
Semantic interoperability, which is hampered by a lack of
a common language and standards, refers to the capacity
of I5.0 technologies to communicate and analyze data
efficiently.
(Sharma et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2018; Lu, 2017)
Automation and digitization of process
To implement I5.0 technologies, organizations must weigh
the advantages of greater productivity and efficiency
against the expenses and disruption caused by switching to
new systems and workflows.
(Sharma et al., 2022; Horváth & Szabó, 2019; Xu et al., 2018;
Colombo & Harrison, 2008)
Ineffective change management and resistance to change
I5.0 technologies' uptake faces obstacles due to ineffective
change management and resistance to change since these
technologies demand a fundamental transformation of
industrial processes, which raises doubt among stakehold-
ers and employees. To successfully use these technologies,
organizations must prioritize effective communication,
cooperation, and participation while simultaneously
addressing worries about job displacement and skill gaps.
(Sharma et al., 2022; Sharma et al., 2020a, 2020b, 2020;
Demir et al., 2019; de Souza Jabbour et al., 2018; Müller
et al., 2018)
Ethics issues in robotic systems
Concerns about the responsible use and deployment of
robots and autonomous systems in Industry 5.0 are
referred to as ethical issues in robotic systems. These
concerns present an impediment to the adoption of these
technologies because organizations must weigh the ethical
implications of their use against the potential advantages
of increased productivity and efficiency.
(Huang et al., 2022; Sharma et al., 2022; Longo et al., 2020;
Nieuważny et al., 2020; Demir et al., 2019; Nahavandi,
2019)
Inadequate laws, rules, legislation, and certification
To protect human rights, confidentiality, security, and
environmental sustainability while using I5.0 technolo-
gies, organizations, and governments must create universal
norms and rules.
(Maddikunta et al., 2022; Sharma et al., 2022;; Xu et al.,
2021, Demir et al., 2019; Ding 2018; Xu et al., 2018;
Stegemann, 2016)
Increased error rates resulting from total automation
between human-machine
A difficulty for I5.0 technologies is the rise in error rates
brought on by the complete automation of human-machine
interactions. Organizations must assure the reliability,
security, and resilience of autonomous processes and
structures while also addressing possible difficulties with
responsibility and liability.
(Sharma et al., 2022; Maddikunta et al., 2022; Ding 2018)
Inadequate green efforts or innovation
Due to a lack of attention and investment, insufficient green
initiatives or innovation impede the widespread imple-
mentation of environmentally responsible and sustainable
I5.0 technologies and practices.
(Sharma et al., 2022; Huang et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2021;
Ahsan & Rahman 2017)
Information Systems Frontiers
Table 1  (continued)
Number of
challenges
Challenges
Description
References
Lack of security, privacy in data circulation
In order to use I5.0 technologies, organizations must guar-
antee the privacy, availability, and integrity of data while
simultaneously defending the rights of stakeholders and
individuals.
(Adel, 2022; Maddikunta et al., 2022; Leng et al., 2022;
Demir et al., 2019; Wells et al., 2014).
Profitability & Scalability
Because developing a sustainable business model and
the capacity of I5.0 technologies and processes to scale
effectively and efficiently present hurdles, businesses must
show the financial sustainability of their investments in
cutting-edge technology.
(Maddikunta et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2021; Sharma et al.,
2020b).
Heterogeneity of the system
The adoption of I5.0 technologies is hampered by the
heterogeneity of industrial systems and processes because
these problems must be resolved for effective communica-
tion and collaboration between various systems, devices,
and stakeholders.
(Leng et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2021)
Transformation of human-centric value-driven technology
The establishment and application of I5.0 technologies
and processes must be coordinated with societal values
and requirements in order to serve the common good and
advance human welfare. This is known as the transition of
human-centric value-driven technology.
(Leng et al., 2022; Gurbaxani & Dunkle, 2019; Paschek et al.,
2019)
Development of lifelong learning and worker training to
address skill gaps
To provide the workforce with the skills and abilities it
needs to adapt to the changing nature of work in I5.0, life-
long learning and worker training are essential. In order to
guarantee that employees can effectively operate, manage,
and maintain sophisticated technology and processes, this
calls for a continual and dynamic process of improving
and retraining.
(Adel, 2022; Leng et al., 2022; Raj et al., 2020; Demir et al.,
2019; Nahavandi, 2019; Paschek et al., 2019)
Social Values Evaluation (time, right policies, ethical issues,
moral codes)
Assessing and resolving the social and ethical consequences
of I5.0 technologies and processes is the task of ensuring
that they are consistent with societal values, norms, and
principles. To guarantee openness, accountability, and
responsible innovation, a multidisciplinary approach is
necessary.
(Leng et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2021)
Requires high investment
able and sustained, a significant investment is needed in
infrastructure, research, and development. For smaller
businesses with less resources, this may act as an entry
challenge.
(Adel, 2022; Sharma et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2021; Paschek
et al., 2019) Information Systems Frontiers
revolution; thus, it is necessary to implement the more
precise requirements for this new period (Maddikunta
et al., 2022).
Besides, scalability is one of the properties of Industry
5.0, but a more serious obstacle is making machines or
robots and humans a partner by doing their job together
(Maddikunta et al., 2022; Sharma et al., 2020b). For this
purpose, to implement I5.0 for businesses, staff must
ensure effective machine-to-machine and operator-to-
machine interaction (Adel, 2022). Thus, people must
improve their competence abilities because when working
with modern robots, personnel have to figure out how to
collaborate with smart machines and robot creators (Adel,
2022; Narvaez Rojas et al., 2021).
Adopting I5.0 is also costly (for example, innovative
technologies necessitate large investments, UR Cobots
are not cheap, training human employees for new occupa-
tions is costly, and so on). In order to boost production
and efficiency, smart machines and highly skilled workers
are required (Adel, 2022). Especially, investment in pro-
totyping collaborative robots which includes funding for
prototype robotics that can imitate people and recognize
and evaluate human intent, as well as a pick-to-light sys-
tem and a human-machine interface (Sharma et al., 2022)
requires a high amount of investment.
Another critical issue that I5.0 faces is security, which
is a challenge for I5.0 since confidence in ecosystems is
vital (Adel, 2022). As we progress toward increasingly
digital computing, security vulnerabilities in the hetero-
geneity of the system and the usage of cloud services for
managing various industrial and user data must be exam-
ined (Maddikunta et al., 2022). I5.0 exhibits multi-system
heterogeneity and multi-sector symbiosis, posing signifi-
cant obstacles to the administration of information and
data across diverse devices (Leng et al., 2022). Strong
security requirements are necessary since I5.0 opera-
tions are heavily reliant on ICT systems to prevent secu-
rity issues (Adel, 2022). Since I5.0 relies on data sharing
over the Internet to link machines to people, developers
with other partners, and while exchanging information for
tracking and supervision, this information has to be kept
private to ensure the security of the cloud manufacturing
environment (Maddikunta et al., 2022; Wells et al., 2014).
Even though I5.0 is a relatively new and evolving idea,
there are enough research in the literature to analyze and
outline I5.0 issues for our study. After the detail investiga-
tion of the literature related to the issue of the I5.0 concept
and its challenges, as presented above, we have recorded
and listed the existing challenges of I5.0 in general. The
challenges were determined generally since it is difficult to
find a sector-based challenge set considering the subject is
still unexplored. This challenge set can be customized and
used by different sectors in future studies, and it may also
be crucial for the generalizability of the study's findings.
After determining these challenges in general, we prior-
itize these challenges depending on our team composed by
the academicians, and grouped the similar challenges, and
eliminated the numbers into 15. The relevant challenges
might span nearly every dimension (economic, social,
environmental, legal, etc.), which was one of the factors
used to narrow down the challenge sets.
2.2  Literature Review of I5.0 Research
Outside the boundaries of I4.0 ecosystems, this new wave,
dubbed I5.0, is anticipated to combine large-scale production
with individualized user experiences (Verma et al., 2022).
A novel study on BC as a risk enabler in I5.0 was sug-
gested by Verma et al. (2022). The authors looked at the
major motivators and prospective applications using a
descriptive survey technique and research questions, and
then proposed an architectural viewpoint of BC-based I5.0 in
many application verticals. Leng et al. (2022) also addressed
the future implementation route, prospective applications,
key enablers, and problems of actual I5.0 scenarios in their
paper. Similarly, Noor-A-Rahim et al. (2022) envisioned the
possibility of IRS technology application in a prospective
smart manufacturing environment to help I5.0 become more
prevalent. By examining current digital platforms and their
shortcomings, a conceptual framework for an enhanced digi-
tal system for the adaptive management of enterprises inside
the ensuing generation of digitalization in the impending
I5.0 era was developed by Gorodetsky et al. in 2020.
Javaid & Haleem (2020) concentrate on the evolution of
all industrial era and distinguishes between I4.0 and I5.0 by
highlighting the key aspects and competence of I5.0 in the
manufacturing area and evaluating and briefly discussing
seventeen major elements of I5.0. Kasinathan et al. (2022)
envision a scenario in which Society 5.0 and I5.0 are con-
nected to construct smart cities, in which possibilities of
reaching Sustainable Development Goals are improved
owing to relationships between the Sustainable Development
Goals and the integrated framework.
Akundi et al. (2022) aimed to recognize and examine the
different concepts and research directions of what I5.0 is
using text mining methods in order to comprehend the view-
point of what I5.0 is its evolvement, and the technologies
and subject areas that facilitate achieving Industry 5.0. Gho-
bakhloo et al. (2022) created and released the I5.0 reference
model which describes the technological and functional ele-
ments of this phenomena. To determine the roles of I5.0 sus-
tainable development, they also carried out a content-centric
examination of the literature. The I5.0-enabled structure for
sustainable growth was created with this goal in mind, and
the sequential linkages between the functions were identified
using the interpretative structural modeling (ISM) technique.
Information Systems Frontiers
For instance, Bedi et al. (2021) noted how the garment
sector has adopted cutting-edge technology including arti-
ficial intelligence (AI), blockchain, 3D printing, cloud
computing, and data analytics in their investigation of the
I5.0. The problems of I4.0 are also highlighted in this study,
which also suggests a creative framework for implement-
ing Industry 6.0 in the wake of the pandemic. Similarly,
Raja Santhi & Muthuswamy (2023) explored I4.0's enabling
technologies and imagines how they will serve as the cor-
nerstone of the fifth industrial revolution. The necessity for
I5.0 technologies and the socioeconomic issues posed by the
technologies were also covered. The study also discussed
the possible usage of Industry 5.0's technologies from the
viewpoint of researchers and industry leaders, as well as how
they can circumvent Industry 4.0's drawbacks. Furthermore,
Gupta et al., (2019) aimed to determine whether there is
a direct link among intelligent supply chain characteristics
and information flexibility in the system in the context of
an organization's information processing capabilities. To
achieve operational excellence, this study must build a solid
connection across the information system's flexibility and
the smart value chain, as well as the environmental capabili-
ties of an organization's information processing. In order to
manage the effects of supply chain disruptions brought on
by the COVID-19 epidemic in a developing nation and to
establish operations that are strong and inclusive, Karmaker
et al., (2023) set out to explore the problems of applying
I5.0 in supply chain networks. Moreover, the implications
of the I5.0 phenomena on the supply chain were discussed
by Frederico (2021). To address the most recent and ground-
breaking idea of the I5.0 phenomena in the supply chain
context, a subject that has not yet received much attention,
this essay intends to provide scholars and practitioners with
insightful new information. Dwivedi et al., (2023) observed
16 possible factors for I5.0 and CSC synergy and builds a
mixed model utilizing the Cross-Impact Matrix Multiplica-
tion Applied to Classification (MICMAC) and the modified
Total Interpretive Structure Model (m-TISM).
3  Proposed Methodology
The DEMATEL method (Decision-Making Trial and Evalu-
ation Laboratory) is a multi-criteria decision-making tool that
enables the selection of measures and efforts to address the
most pressing problems or opportunities. It has been widely
utilized to extract the texture of a complicated problem to
apply DEMATEL, an extended approach for construct-
ing and assessing complex causal interactions among vari-
ous factors and issues. (Abdel-Basset et al., 2018). Its main
advantages include giving decision-making a structured and
methodical approach, enabling stakeholder involvement and
consensus-building, and assisting companies in determining
the dominant forces behind and challenges to the widespread
adoption and application of new technology or procedures.
Since DEMATEL doesn't require a lot of information, it may
quickly suggest the important criteria and how they interact
with one another (Yazdi et al., 2020). Given these benefits,
the DEMATEL method has been effectively applied to assess
indirect relations in numerous industrial domains, covering
advertising approaches, R&D efforts, e-learning assessment,
manager skills, control systems, and aviation safety issues
(Liaw et al., 2011; Lin & Wu, 2008; Tzeng et al., 2007; Chiu
et al., 2006; Hori & Shimizu, 1999). The main argument that
led to the DEMATEL method being preferred in this study is
to determine if there is a cause-and-effect link between them
by examining the I5.0 challenges reported in the literature.
In order to have a greater influence on the entire system, it is
intended to prioritize the search for answers to high-impact
challenges by examining any information on how, if at all, dif-
ferent challenges are impacted by one another. In this scenario,
challenges that directly affect other criteria are given priority,
and by concentrating on this aspect, challenges that will arise
as a result of it may be avoided. As a consequence, many of
the challenges may be handled by recognizing, highlighting,
and addressing factors that have an effect on different groups
of issues. However, by doing we have used a fuzzy scale to
eliminate the vagueness of human judgments. Thereby, the
fuzzy DEMATEL was used in this section of the study to deal
with ambiguous language, human concepts that are formed
by the diversity of the components, and other issues (Kayikci
et al., 2021). Predetermined challenge criteria were evaluated
for causal relationships for applying the fuzzy DEMATEL.
For this purpose, the methodology of the paper is as follows
(see Fig. 1).
3.1  Fuzzy Logic
In 1965, Zadeh introduced the fuzzy set theory. This theory
is suitable for addressing the incoherence and unreliability of
data pertaining to numerous parameters (Zadeh, 1965). Most
of the human language uses ambiguous words like "equally,"
"moderately," "strong," "very strongly," "very," and "consider-
able degree." DMs use such terminology to examine unclear
acts and objects. The instabilities that occur with dealing with
the linguistic judgment of data can be addressed by DMs using
fuzzy set theory. Additionally, the theory makes it possible to
employ coding and scientific procedures in the fuzzy space
(Sagnak et al., 2021). There exist fuzzy numbers with trian-
gular, trapezoidal, and other shapes.
Triangular fuzzy numbers and the membership function; Information Systems Frontiers
Basic fuzzy operations;
To determine the separation between two trapezoidal
fuzzy values, the vertex method is advised. The spacing
B = (a1 + b1, a2 + b2, a3 + b3, a4 + b4
B = (a1b1, a2b2, a3b3, a4b4
B = (a1 −b4, a2 −b3, a3 −b2, a4 −b1
(a1
, a2
, a3
, a4
within two trapezoidal fuzzy values is ascertained using the
vertex approach as follows:
3.2  The Fuzzy Dematel Method
Let Aij =
ij, mn
ij, rn
; ; denote the extent to which criterion
i influences criterion j and the number of fuzzy question-
naires (n = 1, 2, 3,..., p). The CFCS method has five-step
algorithm as follows:
Step 1. Normalize the values:
( ∼m,
√ [ (m1 −n1
)2 + (m2 −n2
)2 + (m3 −n3
)2 + (m4 −n4
)2]
Prepare the questionnaire
Questionnaire sent to expert
committee
Literature review of I5.0
challenges
Obtain data from the experts
Apply the fuzzy scale
Detemining the research gap,
RQs, and aim
Decide on search strings and
database
Prepare initial direct relation
matrix Z
The initial direct relation matrix
Z where all principal diagonal
elements are equal to zero.
Calculation of the normalized
direct relation matrix X
Calculation of the total relation
matrix T
Generate the influential relation
map (IRM)
Fig. 1  The Methodology of the Study
Information Systems Frontiers
Where Δmax
min = max rk
ij −min lk
ij.
Step 2. Calculating the values for the right and left:
Step 3. Calculating the total value of the crisps:
Step 4. Calculating crisp values:
Step 5. The integrated crisps' final values:
The definitions and procedures for DEMATEL have been
modified:
Step 1: Creating the initial Z matrix of direct relationships.
The first direct relation matrix must be computed; hence
a pair-wise comparison level is required. In order to
determine how any two elements, interact, it is neces-
sary to ask respondents to identify the direct correla-
tion that used an integer scale that is divided into four
categories. Table 4 displays the comparison scale of the
fuzzy DEMATEL approach along with "No influence
(0)," "Low impact (1)," "Medium influence (2)," "High
influence (3)," and "Very high influence (4)."
Step 2: Pair-wise comparisons yield the initial total rela-
tion matrix Z, which is an a[n × n] matrix. The degree to
which the criterion Di affects the criterion Dj has been
ranked by respondents in terms of effects and directions,
where zi, j denotes the decision maker's judgements. The
acquired information has been added to a matrix with
principal diagonal members equaling zero.
xlk
ij =
ij −min lk
∕Δmax
min ,
xmk
ij =
ij −min lk
∕Δmax
min ,
xrk
ij =
ij −min lk
∕Δmax
min ,
xlsk
ij = xmk
ij∕
1 + xmk
ij −xlk
xrsk
ij = xrk
ij∕
1 + xrk
ij −xmk
ij =
xlsk
1 −xlsk
+ xrsk
ijxrsk
1 −xlsk
ij + xrsk
ij = min lk
ij + xk
ijΔmax
min .
ij = 1
ij + z2
ij + ⋯+ zp
zij = 1
k=1
ij,
i, j = 1, 2, … , n.
Step 3: The normalized direct relation matrix X can be cal-
culated and established using the formula below:
The matrix X's components are all in accordance with,
and one or more i's such that, Σnj = 1 zij ≤ s.
Step 4: Calculating the total relation matrix T, which has
the following definition
when h →  ∞ ,
where I is an identity matrix.
Step 5: Generating the influential relation map procedure
(IRM). The sums of the rows and columns are calculated
independently in this phase and are designated as C and
R within in the matrix of total relation.
Step 6: Developing the causal diagram. By linking the
datasets and adjusting the C from R, a causal diagram
can also be created. The horizontal axis is represented
by the formula (R + C) and is called "Cause". The ratio
(R + C) shows how significant the criteria are to the sys-
tem as a whole. On the other hand, the vertical axis is
represented by the formula (R − C) and is called "Effect."
A net cause results if (R − C) > 0, but a net receiver or
outcome occurs if (R − C) < 0.
…Dn
0 z12 … z1n
z21 0 … z2n
zn1 zn2 …
s ,
s =
max
1≤i≤n
j=1
zij, max
1≤i≤n
i=1
zij
0 ≤xij < 1
0 ≤a
훴nj = 1
xij ≤1,
T = X + X2 + X3 + ⋯+ Xh = X(1 −X)−1,
n×1 =
[ n
j=1
tij
n×1
1×n =
[ n
i=1
tij
1×n
, Information Systems Frontiers
4  Case Study and Results
This study's case study section investigates and outlines
the potential challenges that businesses confront when they
migrate from I4.0 to I5.0. The textile and apparel indus-
tries were chosen for this case study because they are the
second most significant growing market after agriculture.
Furthermore, due to the heterogeneity of the system and pro-
cesses, the production stage of the goods causes significant
pollution, waste generation, and extensive use of automa-
tion and digitalization. The general challenges investigated
subsequently were utilized in the textile and apparel supply
chain. The reason why sector-specific challenges were not
used is that the literature on I5.0 was sparse and expand-
ing throughout the study's implementation period. There-
fore, searching for sector-based challenges was difficult,
and the challenge criteria set was studied in general. As a
consequence of the literature research, a questionnaire was
designed that evaluated and contained 15 challenges and
Table 2  Profession Profile of
the Selected Experts
Expert number
The profession of the experts
Years of
expertise
Sector
Procurement Specialist
Textile and apparel industry
Strategic Planning Manager
Textile and apparel industry
Material Quality Assurance Specialist
Textile and apparel industry
Manufacturing Engineer
Textile and apparel industry
Marketing Manager
Textile and apparel industry
Normal values
Linguistic terms
Abbreviations
No influence
Very low influence
Low influence
High influence
Very high influence
Table 4  The Fuzzy Linguistic Scale
Linguis-
tic terms
Normal values
Abbreviations
Triangular fuzzy
numbers
No influence
(0, 0, 0.25)
Very low influence
(0, 0.25, 0.5)
Low influence
(0.25, 0.5, 0.75)
High influence
(0.5, 0.75, 1.0)
Very high influence
(0.75, 1.0, 1.0)
Table 5  Initial Direct Relation Matrix Z
Criteria
Sum
Information Systems Frontiers
their interactions with one another for the application of the
fuzzy DEMATEL approach and gathering expert opinions.
The prepared questionnaire was e-mailed to five separate
specialists (see Table 2 for the profile of the experts) with
at least ten years of expertise in the field and representing
different levels of the textile and apparel supply chain.
The fuzzy data provided by the experts are turned into
linguistic values as the first stage in the Excel prepared for
DEMATEL when the questionnaire responses are received
from the experts. These fuzzy data were transformed into
linguistic data using the scale shown in Table 3. The average
score of the experts' opinions and the scores they believe are
suitable were then calculated using Table 4, and the initial
direct relationship matrix Z was created (see Table 5).
The C and R values were then computed using the for-
mulas presented in the 5th stage of the revised DEMA-
TEL method (see 2.2 section) in the methodology section,
and the total relation matrix was constructed, as shown in
Table 6 Finally, Table 7 displays the effect matrix or cause
group (R - C) value in order to demonstrate the influencing
factors. This table displays that C12: Transformation of
human-centric value-driven technology are determined as
the most substantial challenges amidst all challenges with
sharing the same score 9,91. We can deduce that informa-
tion by looking at the (R + C), which the highest value
gives us the most influential factor or element of the crite-
ria set. In addition to that, the C and R degree of the C12:
Transformation of human-centric value-driven technology
is calculated as 9,81 and 0,10 respectively.
By looking at this table, we can create a causal diagram
(see Fig. 2) as the final stage of the fuzzy DEMATEL
method. On this basis, the causal diagram provides the
cause and effect criteria by proposing a schematic repre-
sentation. According to this causal diagram, the cause cri-
teria can be listed as C4, C9, C10, C11, C12, C13, C15 and
effect criteria can be listed as C1, C2, C3, C5, C6, C7, C8
and C14. The above-mentioned cause and effect criteria
demonstrate the impact of these criteria on the system or
the pace at which they are influenced. The cause criteria,
for example, provides essential information regarding the
ways to overcome hurdles in the textile and apparel supply
chain and which criteria to focus in order to influence the
whole supply chain. The impact criteria, on the other hand,
highlight the vulnerable points of these challenges that
require adjustment, which means that these criteria can be
easily affected by the other factors. As a result, what we
Table 6  Total Relation Matrix T
Criteria C1
Table 7  The Causal Diagram’s Prominence and Relation Axis
Effect
Cause
Effect
Cause
Effect
Cause Information Systems Frontiers
need to do to overcome these challenges and have a major
impact on the entire supply chain depends on focusing on
effect criteria.
In (C − R) value, we see that C12: Transformation of
human-centric value-driven technology has the greatest
score which is 9,70. The second highest score belongs to
C7: Increased error rates resulting from total automation
between human-machine with 9,09 score. The greatest effect
score indicates that the relevant criterion(s) has the most
influence on the overall system.
In (C + R) value, the highest importance degree 9,91
which corresponds to C12: Transformation of human-centric
value-driven technology. Then, C4: Ineffective change man-
agement and resistance to change and C13: Development of
lifelong learning and worker training to address skill gaps
ranked as the second most influential effect criteria with the
score of 9,74.
In R value, which referred to influenced effect, C4: Inef-
fective change management and resistance to change has
the highest value in the ranking amidst all other criteria set.
This means that the highest value of R gives us the most
frequently influenced criterion among all criteria. There-
fore, C4: Ineffective change management and resistance to
change has the highest score with 1,12 which means that
this criterion is the most influenced criterion among others.
Then, C11: Heterogeneity of the system ranked as second
place with the score of 0,89. Accordingly, the third criterion
is C9: Lack of security, privacy in data circulation (0,81)
depending on R value.
In C value, which referred to influential effect, C12:
Transformation of human-centric value-driven technology
(9,81) has the greatest value in the ranking among all crite-
ria. The meaning of this, C value gives us the criterion that
influences other causal factors. Then, C13: Development of
lifelong learning and worker training to address skill gaps
(8,91) comes second among the causal criteria.
5  Discussion and Implications
The result of the study displays that C12: Transformation of
human-centric value-driven technology (9,70) is the most
frequently influential challenges among all cause factors
which means that it has substantial effect on other effect
criteria. For instance, I5.0 technologies uses collaborative
robots and artificial intelligence to bring a human touch to
the concept of digital transformation. But one of the key
challenges of I5.0 is to make these highly automated pro-
cesses more human-centered. In this context, this difficulty
contains many problems that it affects. For instance, C13:
Development of lifelong learning and worker training to
address skill gaps is a challenge that many businesses are
confronted with. Because, of the impact of cobots and digi-
tal transformation, digital twins, artificial intelligence, and
so forth, the adoption of I5.0 technologies boosts factory
competitiveness and optimization while also introducing
new skills to the workforce. As a result, businesses should
be open to new trends in this environment by attempting to
provide advanced digital skills such as digital training and
how they can benefit from these technologies, provide train-
ings, promote lifelong learning, track social skills, and keep
up with these new developments.
Moreover, C4: Ineffective change management and resist-
ance to change is another substantial challenge that requires
immediate attention in order to influence the entire system.
This challenge can be caused by a combination of factors
such as the fact that companies have just completed the I4.0
process, they are unable to operate the system effectively,
Fig. 2  The Causal diagram
resulted from the DEMATEL
Chart
DEMATEL Chart
Information Systems Frontiers
they lack adequate infrastructure, insecurity, and lack of
trust, fear of failure, and poor communication, constitutes a
significant barrier to companies adopting I5.0. In this con-
text, these companies that resist adapting these new tech-
nologies to their own systems should evaluate the value that
I5.0 technologies add to the entire ready-made textile and
apparel supply chain, blending them with their own needs,
with an agile and customer-oriented perspective. I5.0 tech-
nologies can provide many benefits and benefits to the tex-
tile and apparel supply chain such as the technical potential
of this technology and automation, speeding up analysis,
performing difficult and repetitive tasks, data privacy and
security, and optimal decision-making features of artificial
intelligence-supported robots.
6  Conclusion
Industrial revolutions often seek to strengthen the sep-
aration of human and machine labor by going one step
further, toward automation and digitalization, and the
transfer of tough and dangerous occupations to robots.
In this context, I4.0, the previous industrial revolution,
has contributed to every level of the supply chain through
technical and technological advancements, as well as to
people's production standards through high-value-added
activities for the next industrial revolution. As it aspires to
incorporate robots into people's daily activities and work,
the introduction of concepts such as I5.0 is a step for-
ward in increasing human-machine interaction and poses
some potential and problems for enterprises in the HMI
area. I5.0 has a variety of benefits, including the ability to
increase production quality, speed, efficiency, productivity,
and industrial efficiency by offloading monotonous, risky,
or error-prone repetitive tasks to robots or machines, leav-
ing people to perform critical thinking tasks.
While doing so, it promotes human-machine harmony,
gives participatory responsibility and constant monitor-
ing of activities, and employs a cobots and people work-
ing together through a human-centered design approach.
In this context, this study believes that I5.0 technologies
demand greater research attention since they contain
numerous technological options and multiple potential
opportunities for many industries, and it intends to con-
tribute to the system by moving beyond past and future
projections and giving some real-life case examples. As
a result, the major pinpoint of this following paper is on
studying and concretely implementing the issues encoun-
tered by organizations upgrading from I4.0 to I5.0 utiliz-
ing case studies from the textile and apparel supply chain.
To that end, the available literature on I5.0 technologies
has been studied and analyzed, by demonstrating the
challenges of I5.0 technologies. After defining the I5.0
challenges in general, the DEMATEL approach was estab-
lished that would disclose the cause-effect link between
the objective reasoning and the challenges. The results of
the DEMATEL method with fuzzy logic have been exam-
ined and discussed throughout the research.
The main findings of this study shed light on the sig-
nificant difficulties organizations faced in the textile and
apparel supply chain as they transitioned from Industry 4.0
to Industry 5.0. Making highly automated processes more
human-centered is crucial in the context of Industry 5.0, as
evidenced by the finding that the transformation of human-
centric value-driven technology is the most important chal-
lenge. This calls for addressing issues like the creation of
lifelong learning and worker training to close skill gaps and
help the workforce successfully adopt new technologies. A
major obstacle to the adoption of Industry 5.0 is also the dif-
ficulty of ineffective change management and resistance to
change. To overcome this obstacle, businesses must assess
the value I5.0 technologies bring to the entire supply chain,
match them to their unique requirements, and adopt an agile,
customer-focused mindset. The textile and apparel supply
chain can gain from increased competitiveness, improved
operations, and improved customer experiences by address-
ing these issues and utilizing the technical potential, auto-
mation capabilities, data privacy and security, and optimal
decision-making features of Industry 5.0 technologies.
The identification of these key findings offers insightful
information for businesses, decision-makers, and researchers
in addition to deepening our understanding of the difficul-
ties involved in the industry 5.0 transition in the textile and
apparel sector. This study provides sector-specific knowl-
edge that can assist in decision-making, strategic planning,
and policy formulation by highlighting the unique challenges
and opportunities within this industry. In order to success-
fully transition to Industry 5.0, businesses must prioritize
human-centric strategies, make investments in programs
that promote lifelong learning and skill development, and
manage change well. Furthermore, the findings highlight the
advantages and potential benefits that I5.0 technologies may
offer to the textile and apparel supply chain, enticing stake-
holders to investigate and utilize these technologies to pro-
mote innovation, efficacy, and sustainability. In conclusion,
this study adds to the body of knowledge by highlighting
the industry-specific factors that must be taken into account
for the successful implementation and adoption of Industry
5.0 in the textile and apparel sector, as well as by offering
specific insights into the opportunities and challenges asso-
ciated with it.
It is crucial to recognize that the conclusions and view-
points presented in this study are subject to industry-specific
considerations, and there may not be much generalizabil-
ity across different industries. Depending on the sector,
its unique requirements, and the current technological Information Systems Frontiers
landscape, the difficulties encountered during the transition
from Industry 4.0 to Industry 5.0 can differ significantly.
The focus of our investigation, the textile and apparel supply
chain, has distinctive qualities and dynamics that might not
be entirely representative of other industries. As a result,
even though the conclusions and implications drawn from
this study are useful when applied to the textile and apparel
industry, care should be taken when applying them to other
industries. In order to gain a deeper understanding and sup-
port implementations adapted to specific industries, future
research projects should investigate the opportunities and
challenges of a transition to Industry 5.0 in a variety of
industries. We provide transparency regarding the scope
and applicability of our study and highlight the need for
additional research to address the industry-specific nuances
and challenges associated with the adoption of Industry 5.0
technologies by acknowledging the limitations of general-
izability and highlighting the sector-specific nature of the
findings.
The I5.0 literature has few resources because it is still in
the early stages and is still being developed, which is one of
the study's shortcomings. I5.0 technologies have not yet been
properly utilized by organizations because of issues such as
being a novel method, expensive, lengthy infrastructure, etc.
As a result, there wasn't enough information in the available
literature to carry out sectoral research. For that reason, the
criteria were decided in the general context and could not be
regulated in a sectoral sense. The criteria specified consisted
of the difficulties discovered throughout the investigation.
Based on this, as I5.0 research advances with momentum
across multiple industries in the future, this list of problems
may be revised and expanded within an industry-specific
context. Additionally, for more comprehensive findings, the
expert profile of the research can be broadened to include
diverse stakeholders with a range of knowledge in the textile
clothing sector. Furthermore, several forms of Multi-Criteria
Decision Making (MCDM) approaches may be used for the
study, and by offering an alternative set of technologies like
I5.0, methods like TODIM, DEA, ELECTRE, etc., can be
used for the study.
Declarations
The authors affirm that they have no known financial or interpersonal
conflicts that might have appeared to have an impact on the research
presented in this paper.
References
Abdel-Basset, M., Manogaran, G., Gamal, A., & Smarandache, F.
(2018). A hybrid approach of neutrosophic sets and DEMATEL
method for developing supplier selection criteria. Design Automa-
tion for Embedded Systems, 22, 257–278.
Adel, A. (2022). Future of industry 5.0 in society: human-centric solu-
tions, challenges and prospective research areas.
Computing, 11(1). https:// org/ 10. 1186/ s13677- 022- 00314-5
Ahsan, K., & Rahman, S. (2017). Green public procurement implemen-
tation challenges in Australian public healthcare sector.
jclep ro. 2017. 03. 055
Akundi, A., Euresti, D., Luna, S., Ankobiah, W., Lopes, A., & Edinba-
rough, I. (2022). State of Industry 5.0 Analysis and Identifica-
tion of Current Research Trends. Applied System. Innovation,
5(1), 1–14. https:// org/ 10. 3390/ asi50 10027
Aslam, F., Aimin, W., Li, M., & Rehman, K. U. (2020). Innovation in
the era of IoT and industry 5.0: Absolute innovation management
(AIM) framework. Information (Switzerland), 11(2). https:// org/ 10. 3390/ info1 10201 24
Bedi, T., Rana, V., & Gautam, N. (2021). Changing Face Of The Apparel
Industry By Incorporating Industry 4.0 And Paving Way For Indus-
try 5.0. Turkish Online
Breque, M., De Nul, L., & Petridis, A. (2021). Industry 5.0: towards a
sustainable, humancentric and resilient European industry.
Chiu, Y. J., Chen, H. C., Tzeng, G. H., & Shyu, J. Z. (2006). Mar-
keting strategy based on customer behaviour for the LCD-TV. 3), 143–165.
Colombo, A. W., & Harrison, R. (2008). Modular and collaborative
automation: Achieving manufacturing flexibility and reconfig-
urability.
and Management, 14(3–4), 249–265. https:// org/ 10. 1504/
Da Xu, L., Xu, E. L., & Li, L. (2018). Industry 4.0: State of the
art and future trends.
Research, 56(8), 2941–2962. https:// org/ 10. 1080/ 00207
de Sousa, L., Jabbour, A. B., Jabbour, C. J. C., Godinho Filho, M., &
Roubaud, D. (2018). Industry 4.0 and the circular economy: a
proposed research agenda and original roadmap for sustainable
operations. Annals of Operations Research, 270(1–2), 273–286.
https:// org/ 10. 1007/ s10479- 018- 2772-8
Demir, K. A., Döven, G., & Sezen, B. (2019). Industry 5.0 and
Human-Robot Co-working. Procedia Computer Science, 158,
688–695. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. procs. 2019. 09. 104
Ding, B. (2018). Pharma Industry 4.0: Literature review and research
opportunities in sustainable pharmaceutical supply chains.
Process Safety and Environmental Protection, 119, 115–130.
https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. psep. 2018. 06. 031
Dwivedi, A., Agrawal, D., Jha, A., & Mathiyazhagan, K. (2023).
Studying the interactions among Industry 5.0 and circular sup-
ply chain: Towards attaining sustainable development. Comput-
ers & Industrial Engineering, 176, 108927.
Faruqi, U. A. (2019). Future service in industry 5.0: survey paper.
Jurnal Sistem Cerdas, 2(1), 67–79. https:// org/ 10. 37396/ jsc.
v2i1. 21
Fazal, N., Haleem, A., Bahl, S., Javaid, M., & Nandan, D. (2022).
Digital management systems in manufacturing using industry
5.0 technologies. In Advancement in Materials, Manufacturing
and Energy Engineering (). Singapore: Springer
Nature Singapore: Vol. II: Select Proceedings of ICAMME 2021.
Frederico, G. F. (2021). From supply chain 4.0 to supply chain 5.0:
Findings from a systematic literature review and research direc-
tions. Logistics, 5(3), 49.
Ghobakhloo, M., Iranmanesh, M., Mubarak, M. F., Mubarik, M.,
Rejeb, A., & Nilashi, M. (2022). Identifying industry 5.0 con-
tributions to sustainable development: A strategy roadmap for
delivering sustainability values. Sustainable Production and Con-
sumption, 33, 716–737. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. spc. 2022. 08. 003
Information Systems Frontiers
Gorodetsky, V., Larukchin, V., & Skobelev, P. (2020). Conceptual
Model of Digital Platform for Enterprises of Industry 5.0. Intel-
ligent Distributed Computing XIII (). https:// org/ 10.
1007/ 978-3- 030- 32258-8_4
Gupta, S., Drave, V. A., Bag, S., & Luo, Z. (2019). Leveraging smart
supply chain and information system agility for supply chain flex-
ibility. Information Systems Frontiers, 21, 547–564.
Gurbaxani, V., & Dunkle, D. (2019). Gearing up for successful digital
transformation. MIS Quarterly. Executive, 18(3), 209–220. https://
org/ 10. 17705/ 2msqe. 00017
Hancock, P. A., Jagacinski, R. J., Parasuraman, R., Wickens, C. D.,
Wilson, G. F., & Kaber, D. B. (2013). Human-automation inter-
action research: Past, present, and future. Ergonomics in Design,
21(2), 9–14. https:// org/ 10. 1177/ 10648 04613 477099
Hori, S., & Shimizu, Y. (1999). Designing methods of human interface
for supervisory control systems. Control engineering practice,
7(11), 1413–1419.
Horváth, D., & Szabó, R. Z. (2019). Driving forces and barriers of
Industry 4.0: Do multinational and small and medium-sized com-
panies have equal opportunities? Technological Forecasting and
Social Change, 146(May), 119–132. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j.
techf ore. 2019. 05. 021
Huang, S., Wang, B., Li, X., Zheng, P., Mourtzis, D., & Wang, L.
(2022). Industry 5.0 and Society 5.0 Comparison, comple-
mentation and co-evolution.
64(July), 424–428. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. jmsy. 2022. 07. 010
Javaid, M., & Haleem, A. (2020). Critical components of industry 5.0
towards a successful adoption in the field of manufacturing. Jour-
nal of Industrial Integration and Management, 5(3), 327–348.
https:// org/ 10. 1142/ S2424 86222 05001 41
Javaid, M., Haleem, A., Singh, R. P., Ul Haq, M. I., Raina, A., &
Suman, R. (2020). Industry 5.0: Potential applications in covid-19. https:// org/ 10. 1142/ S2424 86222 05002 20
Karmaker, C. L., Bari, A. M., Anam, M. Z., Ahmed, T., Ali, S. M.,
de Jesus Pacheco, D. A., & Moktadir, M. A. (2023). Industry 5.0
challenges for post-pandemic supply chain sustainability in an
emerging economy.
ics, 258, 108806.
Kasinathan, P., Pugazhendhi, R., Elavarasan, R. M., Ramachandar-
amurthy, V. K., Ramanathan, V., Subramanian, S., Kumar, S.,
Nandhagopal, K., Raghavan, R. R. V., Rangasamy, S., Devendiran,
R., & Alsharif, M. H. (2022). Realization of Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals with Disruptive Technologies by Integrating Industry
5.0, Society 5.0, Smart Cities and Villages. Sustainability (Swit-
zerland), 14(22). https:// org/ 10. 3390/ su142 215258
Kayikci, Y., Kazancoglu, Y., Lafci, C., & Gozacan, N. (2021). Explor-
ing barriers to smart and sustainable circular economy: The case
of an automotive eco-cluster.
314(January). https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2021. 127920
Krugh, M., & Mears, L. (2018). A complementary Cyber-Human Sys-
tems framework for Industry 4.0 Cyber-Physical Systems. Manu-
facturing Letters, 15, 89–92. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. mfglet.
Leitão, P., Colombo, A. W., & Karnouskos, S. (2016). Industrial auto-
mation based on cyber-physical systems technologies: Prototype
implementations and challenges. Computers in Industry, 81,
11–25. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. compi nd. 2015. 08. 004
Leng, J., Sha, W., Wang, B., Zheng, P., Zhuang, C., Liu, Q., Wuest,
T., Mourtzis, D., & Wang, L. (2022). Industry 5.0: Prospect and
retrospect.
279–295. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. jmsy. 2022. 09. 017
Li, S., Wang, R., Zheng, P., & Wang, L. (2021). Towards proactive
human–robot collaboration: A foreseeable cognitive manufac-
turing paradigm.
547–552. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. jmsy. 2021. 07. 017
Li, X., Koren, Y., & Epureanu, B. I. (2022). Complementary learning-
team machines to enlighten and exploit human expertise. CIRP
Annals, 71(1), 417–420. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. cirp. 2022. 04. 019
Liaw, C. S., Chang, Y. C., Chang, K. H., & Chang, T. Y. (2011). ME-
OWA based DEMATEL reliability apportionment method. Expert
Systems with Applications, 38(8), 9713–9723.
Lin, C. J., & Wu, W. W. (2008). A causal analytical method for group
decision-making under fuzzy environment. Expert Systems with
Applications, 34(1), 205–213.
Liu, H., & Wang, L. (2020). Remote human–robot collaboration: A
cyber–physical system application for hazard manufacturing envi-
ronment.
24–34. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. jmsy. 2019. 11. 001
Longo, F., Padovano, A., & Umbrello, S. (2020). Value-oriented and
ethical technology engineering in industry 5.0: A human-centric
perspective for the design of the factory of the future. Applied
Sciences (Switzerland), 10(12), 1–25. https:// org/ 10. 3390/
Lu, Y. (2017). Industry 4.0: A survey on technologies, applications and
open research issues.
tion, 6, 1–10. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. jii. 2017. 04. 005
Maddikunta, P. K. R., Pham, Q. V., Prabadevi, B., Deepa, N., Dev,
K., Gadekallu, T. R., Ruby, R., & Liyanage, M. (2022). Industry
5.0: A survey on enabling technologies and potential applications. 100257. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. jii. 2021. 100257
Müller, J. M., Buliga, O., & Voigt, K. I. (2018). Fortune favors the pre-
pared: How SMEs approach business model innovations in Indus-
try 4.0. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 132(Janu-
ary), 2–17. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. techf ore. 2017. 12. 019
Nahavandi, S. (2019). Industry 5.0. Sustainability, 11, 43–71.
Narvaez Rojas, C., Alomia Peñafiel, G. A., Loaiza Buitrago, D. F.,
& Tavera Romero, C. A. (2021). Society 5.0: A Japanese con-
cept for a superintelligent society. Sustainability (Switzerland),
13(12). https:// org/ 10. 3390/ su131 26567
Nieuważny, J., Masui, F., Ptaszynski, M., Rzepka, R., & Nowa-
kowski, K. (2020). How religion and morality correlate in age
of society 5.0: Statistical analysis of emotional and moral asso-
ciations with Buddhist religious terms appearing on Japanese
blogs. Cognitive Systems Research, 59, 329–344.
Noor-A-Rahim, M., Firyaguna, F., John, J., Khyam, M. O., Pesch,
D., Armstrong, E., Claussen, H., & Poor, H. V. (2022). Toward
Industry 5.0: Intelligent Reflecting Surface in Smart Manufac-
turing. IEEE Communications Magazine, 60(10), 72–78. https://
org/ 10. 1109/ MCOM. 001. 22000 16
Paschek, D., Mocan, A., & Draghici, A. (2019). Industry 5 . 0 –
The Expected Impact of Next Industrial Revolution. Manag-
ment Knowledge Learning International Conference, 125–132.
http:// www. tokno wpress. net/ ISBN/ 978- 961- 6914- 25-3/ papers/
ML19- 017. pdf
Raj, A., Dwivedi, G., Sharma, A., de Sousa, L., Jabbour, A. B., &
Rajak, S. (2020). Barriers to the adoption of industry 4.0 tech-
nologies in the manufacturing sector: An inter-country com-
parative perspective.
nomics, 224(August 2019), 107546. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j.
ijpe. 2019. 107546
Raja Santhi, A., & Muthuswamy, P. (2023). Industry 5.0 or industry
4.0 S? Introduction to industry 4.0 and a peek into the prospec-
tive industry 5.0 technologies. International Journal on Inter-
active Design and Manufacturing (IJIDeM), 17(2), 947–979.
Sagnak, M., Berberoglu, Y., Memis, İ., & Yazgan, O. (2021). Sus-
tainable collection center location selection in emerging econ-
omy for electronic waste with fuzzy Best-Worst and fuzzy TOP-
SIS. Waste Management, 127, 37–47. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j.
wasman. 2021. 03. 054 Information Systems Frontiers
Sharma, I., Garg, I., & Kiran, D. (2020). Industry 5.0 And Smart
Cities: A Futuristic Approach. European
& Clinical Medicine, 07(08), 2750–2756.
Sharma, M., Gupta, R., & Acharya, P. (2020a). Factors influencing
cloud computing adoption for higher educational institutes in
India: A fuzzy AHP approach.
mation Technology and Management, 19(2–3), 126–150. https://
org/ 10. 1504/ IJITM. 2020. 106215
Sharma, M., Gupta, R., & Acharya, P. (2020b). Prioritizing the Criti-
cal Factors of Cloud Computing Adoption Using Multi-criteria
Decision-making Techniques. Global Business Review, 21(1),
142–161. https:// org/ 10. 1177/ 09721 50917 741187
Sharma, M., Sehrawat, R., Luthra, S., Daim, T., & Bakry, D. (2022).
Moving Towards Industry 5.0 in the Pharmaceutical Manufac-
turing Sector: Challenges and Solutions for Germany. IEEE
Transactions on Engineering Management, 1–18. https:// org/ 10. 1109/ TEM. 2022. 31434 66
Stegemann, S. (2016). The future of pharmaceutical manufactur-
ing in the context of the scientific, social, technological and
economic evolution. European
ences, 90, 8–13. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. ejps. 2015. 11. 003
Tay, S. I., Alipal, J., & Lee, T. C. (2021). Industry 4.0: Current
practice and challenges in Malaysian manufacturing firms. Tech-
nology in Society, 67(September), 101749. https:// org/ 10.
1016/j. techs oc. 2021. 101749
Tzeng, G. H., Chiang, C. H., & Li, C. W. (2007). Evaluating inter-
twined effects in e-learning programs: A novel hybrid MCDM
model based on factor analysis and DEMATEL. Expert systems
with Applications, 32(4), 1028–1044.
Verma, A., Bhattacharya, P., Madhani, N., Trivedi, C., Bhushan, B.,
Tanwar, S., Sharma, G., Bokoro, P. N., & Sharma, R. (2022).
Blockchain for Industry 5.0: Vision, Opportunities, Key Enablers,
and Future Directions. IEEE Access, 10(July), 69160–69199.
https:// org/ 10. 1109/ ACCESS. 2022. 31868 92
Wells, L. J., Camelio, J. A., Williams, C. B., & White, J. (2014). Cyber-
physical security challenges in manufacturing systems. Manufactur-
ing Letters, 2(2), 74–77. https:// org/ 10. 1016/j. mfglet. 2014. 01. 005
Xu, X., Lu, Y., Vogel-Heuser, B., & Wang, L. (2021). Industry 4.0 and
Industry 5.0 Inception, conception and perception.
Manufacturing Systems, 61(September), 530–535. https:// org/
10. 1016/j. jmsy. 2021. 10. 006
Yazdi, M., Nedjati, A., Zarei, E., & Abbassi, R. (2020). A novel exten-
sion of DEMATEL approach for probabilistic safety analysis in
process systems. Safety science, 121, 119–136.
Yüksel, H. (2020). An empirical evaluation of industry 4.0 applica-
tions of companies in Turkey: The case of a developing country.
Technology in Society, 63(September), 101364. https:// org/ 10.
1016/j. techs oc. 2020. 101364
Zadeh, L. A. (1965). Fuzzy Sets. Information Control, 8(3), 338–353.
https:// org/ 10. 1016/ S0019- 9958(65) 90241-X
Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds
exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of
such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Yigit Kazancoglu received his B.S. degree from Eastern Mediterranean
University, Dept. of Industrial Engineering as an Honor student and
second in dept. ranking. He has graduated from Coventry University,
as a High Honor student, respectively in 2003 and 2004. Kazancoglu
has received his PhD. at Ege University (Production & Operations
Management). Kazancoglu currently works as Full time Professor Dr.
at the Logistics Management, Yasar University, Turkey. His research
areas are Operations Management, Supply Chain Management, Green
Logistics, Sustainability, Circular Economy, Industry 4.0, multi criteria
decision making methods.
Sachin Kumar Mangla is a highly experienced and dedicated academic
in the fields of Green and Sustainable Supply Chain and Operations,
Industry 4.0, Circular Economy, Decision Making, and Simulation.
With over five years of teaching experience, he has taught at various
universities in the UK, Turkey, India, China, and France. Dr. Mangla
is the director of the Research Centre for “Digital Circular Economy
for Sustainable Development Goals (DCE-SDG)” at O.P. Jindal Global
University, India. He has also held editorial positions and edited special
issues in top-tier journals.
Yalçın Berberoğlu was born in İzmir in 1996. He began his undergradu-
and completed his degree there in 2019. Subsequently, he enrolled
in Yaşar University’s Master of Logistics Engineering program, from
which he graduated in 2021. He is now working on a doctoral degree
in business administration. His fields of study include circular econ-
omy, sustainability, Industry 4.0 and 5.0 technologies, supply chain,
logistics, multi-criteria decision-making, optimization models and
algorithms.
Administration with a bachelor’s degree in 2017 and the Department
of International Logistics with a master’s degree in 2021. Çisem Lafcı,
Administration, also covers subjects including circular economy, logis-
tics, supply chain management, ergonomics, sustainability, and digital
technologies.
Jitender Madaan is a Professor of Operations and Supply Chain
industrial projects, synergising his operations management expertise
and hands-on industrial background to assist organizations in attaining
performance excellence in their operations and sustainable supply chain
processes. Prof Madaan’s research amalgamates two related domains
that demand complex and holistic solutions: operational efficacy and
sustainability. His research scope includes broader issues such as prod-
uct and packaging recovery and the social impacts of supply chain
practices. With the emergence of IT facilitation, the digital economy
continues to evolve; his research now examines its influence on sustain-
able business operations. His teaching expertise extends to Doctoral,
Master’s, and Undergraduate levels, as well as entrepreneurship and
professional sponsored courses. Professor Jitender is a founding mem-
ber of the Entrepreneurship Program at DMS, IIT Delhi. His research
has been published in the
Decision Support System,
Forecasting and Social Change, and
amongst others. He has presented at international conferences, includ-
the International Association for Management of Technology and the
Production and Operations Management Society Conference. He has
led several national/international research and consultancy projects
funded by public and private corporations including the Department
of Science and Technology (DST) India. As a leading academician
and researcher, he has published extensively in leading scientific jour-
nals and several international conferences. Professor Jitender Madaan
has also published seven book chapters in humanitarian operations,
healthcare management and innovation, product recovery performance
measurement and reverse supply chain management systems.