The Asian Productivity Organization (APO)
is an intergovernmental organization that
promotes productivity as a key enabler
for socioeconomic development and
organizational and enterprise growth. It
promotes productivity improvement
tools, techniques, and methodologies;
supports the National Productivity
Organizations of its members; conducts
research on productivity trends; and
disseminates productivity information,
analyses, and data. The APO was established
in 1961 and comprises 21 members.
APO Members
Bangladesh, Cambodia, Republic of China,
Fiji, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Islamic
Republic of Iran, Japan, Republic of Korea,
Lao PDR, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nepal,
Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Thailand, Turkiye, and Vietnam.
NATIONAL STRATEGY
TO BOOST VIETNAM’S
TEXTILE AND GARMENT
PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH
INNOVATION AND
TECHNOLOGY
OCTOBER 2025 | ASIAN PRODUCTIVITY ORGANIZATION
National Strategy to Boost Vietnam’s Textile and Garment Productivity through
Innovation and Technology
A strategic foresight project examining plausible future impacts and implications of
technology and innovation for Vietnam’s textile and garment industry
Dr. Sara Quach Thaichon served as the volume editor.
First edition published in Japan
by the Asian Productivity Organization
1-24-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku
Tokyo 113-0033, Japan
www.apo-tokyo.org
© 2025 Asian Productivity Organization
The views expressed in this publication do not necessarily reflect the official views of
the Asian Productivity Organization (APO) or any APO member.
All rights reserved. None of the contents of this publication may be used, reproduced,
stored, or transferred in any form or by any means for commercial purposes without
prior written permission from the APO.
Designed by Urban Connections Co., Ltd.
CONTENTS
FOREWORD V
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
VII
1. INTRODUCTION
1
2. CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3
2.1 Overview
3
2.2 Labor Trends
4
2.2.1 Workforce Composition and Growth
4
2.2.2 Wages and Employment Conditions
6
2.2.3 Skill Development and Workforce Challenges
7
2.2.4 Gender and Labor Mobility
9
2.3 Labor Productivity
11
2.4 Energy Efficiency and Green Growth: Pioneering Vietnam’s Textile and Garment Future
18
2.4.1 Green Growth and Energy Efficiency in the Textile Subsector
20
2.4.2 Sustainability in the Garment Subsector: A Growing Trend
22
2.5 Supply Chain Participation
24
2.5.1 Textile Sector: Reliance on Imported Input
26
2.5.2 Garment Sector: Strong Export Growth but Limited Value Addition
26
2.5.3 The Vibrant Domestic Market
27
3. MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
30
3.1 Sustainability and Circular Fashion
31
3.1.1 Stringent Regulatory Framework about Sustainability
31
3.1.2 Buyer Expectations and Standards about Sustainability
33
3.2 Geopolitical Trade Shifts
37
3.2.1 Increasing Focus on Asia: Greater Competition and Unstable Political Environment	 37
3.2.2 Nearshoring
38
3.2.3 ‘China+1’ Sourcing Strategy
38
3.2.4 Continued Influence of the Asia-Pacific Region
38
3.2.5 Emerging Markets: Opportunities to Service Chinese Market
38
3.3 Textile Innovation and Advanced Materials
39
3.3.1 Demand for Sustainable Materials
39
3.3.2 Eco-materials
40
3.3.3 Innovations in Next-gen Textiles
41
3.4 Textile 4.0 – Adoption of Industry 4.0 Principles
43
3.4.1 Shift from Labor-intensive to Value-added Production
43
3.4.2 Automation Technology Adoption 44
3.4.3 Data Analytics for Optimal Decision-making
44
3.4.4 Custom Manufacturing
45
3.4.5 Supply Chain Integration
45
IV | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
3.5 Proactive Buyers
47
3.5.1 Personalization
47
3.5.2 Value Co-Creation with Buyers
47
3.6 Skilled Labor
49
3.6.1 Skill Requirements 49
3.6.2 Competing Industries for Talent Recruitment and Retention
50
3.6.3 The Importance of Education and Training
52
4. SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL
TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
54
4.1 Scenario Design
54
4.1.1 Baseline Scenario
57
4.1.2 Green Growth and Technological Development Scenarios
60
4.2 Result Analysis
62
4.2.1 Primary Scenarios
62
4.2.3 Result Analysis of Vietnam’s Textile and Garment Industries in Green Growth
and Technological Development Scenarios (Scenarios S1-S12)
68
4.2.4 Result Analysis of Vietnam’s Textile and Garment Industries’ Key Supply Chains
in Green Growth and Technological Development Scenarios
72
4.2.5 Analysis of Macro Impacts on the Economy of Vietnam
75
4.3 Discussions and Summary
76
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
78
5.1 Scenario 1: Slow and Steady (Low Green – Low Tech)
78
5.2 Scenario 2: Tech Driven (Low Green – High Tech)
80
5.3 Scenario 3: Green Driven (High Green – Low Tech)
82
5.4 Scenario 4: Sustainable Innovation (High Green – High Tech)
84
6. CONCLUSIONS 87
REFERENCES
88
APPENDIX
96
LIST OF AUTHORS
112
GLOSSARIES
113
LIST OF FIGURES 114
LIST OF TABLES 116
CONTENTS
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | V
FOREWORD
T
he Asian Productivity Organization (APO) was founded with a clear mission: to promote
productivity as the cornerstone of inclusive and sustainable growth across Asia and the Pacific.
For more than six decades, we have supported our member economies in building capabilities,
strengthening institutions, and developing forward-looking strategies to meet the demands of an
ever-changing global economy. At its heart, productivity is not merely about producing more with
less. It is about enabling societies to flourish, enterprises to remain competitive, and people to live
with dignity.
Vietnam’s textile and garment industry, a sector that provides livelihoods to millions and sustains
a vital share of national exports, exemplifies both the promise and the pressures of globalization.
This sector has been an engine of growth, yet it now stands at a crossroads. Rising labor costs, skill
mismatches, and heavy reliance on imported materials are challenging its competitiveness. At the
same time, sustainability imperatives and shifting buyer expectations are reshaping the industry,
demanding innovation, resilience, and transformation. Addressing these issues is essential if
Vietnam is to maintain its global position and unlock higher value from its textile economy.
This publication offers timely and practical insights into future pathways. It highlights the strategic
choices facing Vietnam as it navigates the twin imperatives of technological adoption and green
transition. The scenarios and recommendations presented herein underscore a truth that resonates
far beyond Vietnam’s borders: productivity growth in the 21st century will be defined not just by
efficiency, but by sustainability, adaptability, and the capacity to innovate. For the textile industry,
this means embracing Industry 4.0, investing in human capital, and embedding circular practices
into every stage of the value chain.
I invite policymakers, business leaders, researchers, and workers alike to reflect deeply on the
analyses in these pages. The journey ahead is complex, but it is also filled with opportunity. By
harnessing productivity as a driver of innovation and sustainability, Vietnam’s textile and garment
industry can move beyond being a supplier of low-cost labor toward becoming a global leader in
sustainable and high-value production. In doing so, it will contribute not only to Vietnam’s
economic aspirations but also to the broader vision of the APO: a more productive, sustainable, and
inclusive Asia and Pacific.
Dr. Indra Pradana Singawinata
Secretary-General
Asian Productivity Organization
VI | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | VII
T
he textile and garment industry is a cornerstone of Vietnam’s economy, playing a critical role
in driving economic growth, employment, and export revenue. However, the industry is
currently at a crossroads, facing significant challenges and opportunities as it navigates an
increasingly complex global market. This report provides a comprehensive analysis of the
industry’s current state, the megatrends shaping its future, potential scenarios for its development,
and strategic recommendations for ensuring its long-term competitiveness and sustainability.
Industry Overview
Vietnam’s textile and garment sector, employing over 3 million workers, is a leading contributor to
GDP and export revenue. The industry comprises two main sectors: textile production (fiber
production, spinning, weaving, dyeing, and finishing) and garment manufacturing. Despite notable
growth in exports over the last decade, challenges persist, including labor shortages, reliance on
imported raw materials, and mounting sustainability demands. Rising labor costs, an aging
workforce, and limited domestic value-creation capacity further stress the need for upskilling and
technological adaptation, especially as Industry 4.0 gains traction globally.
The industry’s heavy reliance on imported materials exposes it to supply chain vulnerabilities,
underscoring the need to strengthen domestic supply chains. Additionally, the sector is highly
energy-intensive, particularly in dyeing and weaving processes, increasing pressure to adopt
sustainable practices as global buyers impose stringent Environmental, Social, and Governance
(ESG) criteria. Although green technologies are emerging, widespread adoption remains limited
due to outdated machinery and high energy costs.
Megatrends Shaping the Industry
Several global megatrends are reshaping the industry, including:
1.	Sustainability and circular fashion: Increasing focus on ESG compliance and carbon-neutral
manufacturing in major export markets such as the EU, the USA, and Japan.
2.	Geopolitical shifts and trade dynamics: Opportunities are emerging in the expanding Chinese
market amidst an increasingly competitive Asian manufacturing landscape.
3.	Textile innovation and advanced materials: Growing demand for sustainable, durable
materials to counter the fast fashion model.
4.	Digitalization and Industry 4.0: Automation and digitalization are essential for enhancing
productivity, efficiency, and supply chain resilience.
5.	Proactive buyers: Buyers are increasingly active in the value chain, prioritizing sustainable and
customized solutions, which drives deeper collaboration and co-creation with producers.
6.	Skilled labor: The industry must compete with other sectors for skilled labor while adapting the
workforce to meet the demands of digitalization and sustainability.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
VIII | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
Future Scenarios
The report presents four potential scenarios based on varying levels of green growth and technology
adoption. Total factor productivity is identified as the key driver for sustained growth, especially
for the textile sector. Overall, the scenarios provide a forward-looking perspective on the industry’s
potential trajectories, offering insights into the strategic decisions that will shape its future.
•
Scenario 1 - Slow and Steady (Low Green - Low Tech): Focuses on incremental, low-cost
improvements. Recommendations include small grants, low-interest loans, and pooled funding
to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in adopting energy-efficient practices
and basic Lean methods for waste reduction. Workforce training emphasizes foundational
skills, preparing the industry for gradual improvements in green and technological practices.
•
Scenario 2 - Tech Driven (Low Green - High Tech): Prioritizes productivity through technology,
with limited green initiatives. Recommendations support tax incentives and loans for automation
and AI tools, focusing on efficiency and global competitiveness. Training programs on advanced
tech skills ensure the workforce can operate new technologies, while basic eco-friendly practices,
such as energy monitoring, help firms prepare for future green requirements.
•
Scenario 3 - Green Driven (High Green - Low Tech): Emphasizes sustainability with limited
technological investment. Grants and tax breaks are recommended for eco-focused initiatives,
such as water recycling systems and sustainable materials. Industry associations are advised to
foster shared sustainable infrastructure projects, with training in resource management and
sustainability standards to build a workforce capable of eco-conscious production.
•
Scenario 4 - Sustainable Innovation (High Green – High Tech): Combines high-tech and
high-sustainability practices. Recommendations include comprehensive financial programs
(grants, tax credits, and low-interest loans) to support advanced green technologies like digital
twins and renewable energy. Cross-functional training merges digital literacy with eco-friendly
practices, positioning firms to meet global sustainability standards and establish Vietnam as a
leader in sustainable textile production.
Core recommendations across scenarios:
•
Financial incentives: Provide structured support tailored to each scenario, from low-interest
loans for incremental changes to substantial grants for high-tech, green integration.
•
Workforce development: Equip the workforce through training programs that range from
foundational skills to advanced digital and green capabilities.
•
Sustainability and green transition: Promote gradual or comprehensive green practices,
aligned with scenario-specific priorities, to meet international standards and market expectations.
These recommendations offer a pathway for Vietnam’s textile and garment sector to navigate
global challenges, ensuring sustainable and competitive growth that aligns with evolving market
demands.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 1
The textile and garment industry holds a pivotal position in Vietnam’s economy, contributing
significantly to the nation’s GDP, employment, and export revenue. As one of the country’s largest
industries, it has become a cornerstone of Vietnam’s economic development, driving growth and
providing livelihoods for millions of workers. Vietnam’s strategic location, coupled with its
competitive labor costs and an extensive network of trade agreements, has positioned the country
as a key player in the global textile and garment supply chain. However, the industry is not without
its challenges. As the global market evolves and technology advances, the industry faces increasing
pressure to innovate and adapt. One of the most pressing challenges is the shortage of skilled labor,
exacerbated by the rapid pace of technological change. The transition to Industry 4.0, characterized
by automation, digitalization, and the integration of advanced manufacturing technologies,
necessitates a workforce that is not only larger but also more skilled. Additionally, the industry
must contend with the increasing demands for sustainable and eco-friendly production processes,
which require substantial investment in new technologies and practices.
Furthermore, the competitive landscape is shifting, with Vietnam’s traditional advantage of low
labor costs being gradually eroded by the rise of automation and the increasing attractiveness of
other sectors, such as electronics and high-tech industries. This shift demands that Vietnam’s
textile and garment industry reevaluate its strategies to maintain its competitive edge in the global
market. The industry must also address the high turnover rates and the challenges of maintaining
stable labor relations, which are critical to ensuring consistent production and meeting
international standards.
The purpose of this report is to provide a comprehensive analysis of the current state of Vietnam’s
textile and garment industry, identifying the key opportunities and challenges it faces in the context
of global megatrends and technological advancements. The report aims to offer insights into how
the industry can navigate these challenges, capitalize on emerging opportunities, and strategically
position itself for sustainable growth in the future. By examining the impact of Industry 4.0
technologies, shifts in global demand, and the increasing importance of sustainability, the report
seeks to guide stakeholders in making informed decisions that will shape the future of the industry.
This report is organized into four main sections:
•
Overview of the Industry: This section provides a detailed overview of Vietnam’s textile and
garment industry, including its economic significance, current state, and key challenges. It sets
the stage for understanding the industry’s role within the broader context of Vietnam’s
economic landscape.
•
Megatrends in the Textile and Garment Industry in Vietnam: This section explores the major
trends that are influencing the textile and garment industry in Vietnam. These include
sustainability and circular fashion, geopolitical trade shifts, digitalization and Industry 4.0,
textile innovation and advanced materials, proactive buyers, and skilled labor.
•
Scenarios: Building on the insights from the previous sections, this part of the report presents
possible future scenarios for the industry. These scenarios consider two critical factors: green
growth and technology adoption, offering a forward-looking perspective on the industry’s
potential trajectories.
1. INTRODUCTION
2 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
INTRODUCTION
•
Recommendations: The final section of the report provides strategic recommendations for
industry stakeholders, including policymakers, business leaders, and investors. These
recommendations are designed to address the challenges identified earlier and to leverage the
opportunities presented by emerging trends and technologies.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 3
2. CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND
GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
2.1 Overview
The textile and garment industry in Vietnam can be broadly decomposed into two main sectors: the
textile sector and the garment (or apparel) sector. The textile sector involves activities such as fiber
production (both natural and synthetic), spinning, weaving, knitting, and finishing fabrics, as well
as key subsectors like dyeing and printing, which add significant value through aesthetic and
functional enhancements. Meanwhile, the garment sector focuses on the design, cutting, and
stitching of fabrics to produce a wide range of apparel products. Subsector specialization, such as
in sportswear, fashion, or technical textiles, is essential for meeting the diverse and evolving needs
of both domestic and international markets.
Each subsector plays a critical role in the overall supply chain: the textile subsectors provide the
necessary raw materials, while the garment subsectors add creativity and functionality, transforming
fabrics into finished products. The future success of Vietnam’s textile and garment industry will
depend on the efficiency, innovation, and sustainability of these subsectors, with enhanced
integration between them being crucial for capturing greater value and competitiveness in the
global market.
The industry’s growth over the past decade has been remarkable. Between 2012 and 2022, textile
exports surged by 115%, while garment exports grew by 89%. The number of garment firms
increased by 217%, accompanied by a 169% rise in capital investment in the textile sector (GSO,
2023). Vietnam’s strategic location, competitive labor costs, and commitment to technology and
innovation have made it an attractive destination for global manufacturers and fashion brands. By
2022, Vietnam’s textile and garment exports reached USD44 billion, making the country one of the
world’s top exporters. Knitwear emerged as a key product category, accounting for 42.5% of total
garment and textile exports in Vietnam (GSO, 2023). Despite fluctuations in demand, particularly
a 9.6% dip in early 2023 (Statista, 2024), the sector remains a powerhouse, contributing more than
16% of Vietnam’s GDP and employing over 3 million people.
However, the industry’s export-heavy focus presents vulnerabilities. Dependence on markets such
as the USA and the EU exposes Vietnam to global demand fluctuations and shifting trade policies.
The industry’s dualistic structure, characterized by large export-oriented firms and smaller, locally
focused enterprises, presents additional challenges. Structural limitations like high upfront costs,
an uncertain return on investment (ROI), and workforce shortages further complicate growth.
Additionally, environmental sustainability remains a pressing concern. Vietnam has taken proactive
steps to address these issues, including Vietnam’s initiatives, such as the Sustainable Textile and
Apparel Program by the Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association (VITAS) and strategic guidelines
by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Development Strategy for the Textile, Garment, and
Leather Footwear Industry of Vietnam until 2030, Vision to 2035, which include ambitious goals
and measures to  promote resource efficiency and reduce environmental impacts. 4 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
TABLE 1
SOME STATISTICS FOR VIETNAM GARMENT AND TEXTILE OVER TIME (SOURCE: WB, 2024 AND GSO) (*: ALL VALUES ARE IN REAL TERMS WITH 2010 AS THE BASE YEAR)
2012
2022
Change
Textile
Garment
Textile
Garment
Textile
Garment
Export (USD’000)*
2452712
11565733
5284409
21856270.4
115%
89%
Number of firms (firm)
2238
4350
4693
13801
110%
217%
Capital (’000 bil VND)*
109092.3
85358.0
293690.2
173159.3
169%
103%
Gross Revenue (’000 bil VND)*
118.17
119.71
287.99
259.48
144%
117%
Labor (’000 employee)
277.15
1516.26
334.32
2918.94
21%
93%
Unskilled labor (%)
84.9
80.5
-5%
Industry index (%)
104.2
107.5
102.6
115.2
-2%
7%
Understanding these dynamics is critical to ensuring the future success of Vietnam’s textile and
garment industry. Subsequent sections will explore productivity trends, labor dynamics, capital
intensity, energy efficiency, and supply chain optimization. By examining each subsector,
policymakers and industry leaders can make informed decisions that drive sustainable development
and future growth.
2.2 Labor Trends
Labor is a crucial driver of Vietnam’s textile and garment industry, which employs millions of
workers, many of whom are women. In recent years, there has been a clear shift away from basic
cut-make-trim (CMT) toward higher value-added, technology-enabled products and processes—
such as more complex knitwear, functional/technical textiles, eco-materials, and shorter,
personalized orders aligned with buyers’ sustainability and traceability requirements. However, the
industry still relies heavily on low-cost labor, particularly in rural areas. The availability of a large
workforce has traditionally been an advantage, but as labor costs gradually increase, there is a
growing need for improved labor productivity to maintain competitiveness.
2.2.1 Workforce Composition and Growth
Figure 1 provides a breakdown of the proportion of firms and labor within various subsectors of
Vietnam’s textile and garment industry. Notably, the manufacture of wearing apparel, except fur
apparel, dominates both categories significantly, comprising 65.6% of firms and employing 80.7%
of the labor force in the industry. This underscores the sector’s central role in Vietnam’s textile
economy, highlighting its extensive employment generation despite representing a relatively high
proportion of smaller firms. Conversely, subsectors such as spinning of textile fibers, finishing of
textiles, and the manufacture of made-up textile articles exhibit higher proportions of firms relative
to their labor contributions, suggesting potentially higher capital intensity or smaller scale of
operations compared to apparel manufacturing. This distribution underscores the diverse
composition of Vietnam’s textile and garment industry, where different subsectors play distinct
roles in terms of employment and economic contribution.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 5
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
DISTRIBUTION OF NUMBER OF FIRMS AND LABOR ACROSS VIETNAM TEXTILE AND GARMENT
SUBSECTORS IN 2022
Source: Author calculation based on GSO survey data
FIGURE 1
Proportion of number of labor
Proportion of number of ﬁrms
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90 %
Spinning of textile ﬁbres
Weaving of textiles
Finishing of textiles
Manufacture of knitted and crocheted fabrics
Manufacture of made-up textile articles, except apparel
Manufacture of carpets and rugs
Manufacture of cordage, rope, twine and netting
Manufacture of other textiles N.E.C.
Manufacture of wearing apparel, except fur apparel
Manufacture of articles of fur
Manufacture of knitted and crocheted apparel
Relating to growth, the textile industry in Vietnam has witnessed diverse growth trajectories within
its key subsectors in the last 15 years.  In the textile subsector, weaving of textiles stands out with
an impressive average growth rate of 6.1% during the reviewed period. This growth has been
fueled by the rising domestic and global demand for woven fabrics, which continues to drive job
creation in the industry. Weaving has been a critical component of Vietnam’s textile value chain,
benefiting from the country’s cost-effective labor force and its integration into regional and global
supply networks.
Other key areas within the textile subsector, such as the spinning of textile fibers and finishing of
textiles, have demonstrated more moderate growth rates of 4.3% and 3.6%, respectively. These
subsectors contribute steadily to workforce expansion, ensuring a balanced distribution of
employment across the industry’s value chain. In addition, the production of knitted and crocheted
fabrics has maintained a solid growth pace of 5.0%, reflecting sustained market demand and
production efficiency, which continue to shape the labor dynamics within these subsectors.
6 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
LABOR GROWTH ACROSS GARMENT AND TEXTILE SUBSECTORS
Source: Author calculation based on GSO business survey data
FIGURE 2
-2.0
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
14.0
16.0
%
Spinning of
textile ﬁbres
Weaving of textiles
Finishing of textiles
Knitted and
crocheted fabrics
Made-up textile articles,
except apparel
Carpets and rugs
Cordage, rope,
twine and netting
Other textiles N.E.C.
Wearing apparel,
except fur apparel
Articles of fur
Knitted and
crocheted apparel
2009–2012
2013–2017
2018–2022
Average
The garment subsector, particularly the manufacturing of wearing apparel (except fur apparel), has
been a major driver of Vietnam’s industrial growth. The subsector’s labor force has grown at an
impressive 7.7% annually, highlighting Vietnam’s competitive advantage in garment manufacturing.
This growth is supported by favorable labor costs, a relatively skilled workforce, and efficient
production processes, positioning Vietnam as a leading exporter in global garment markets. Other
segments, such as articles of fur and knitted and crocheted apparel, have also shown significant
growth rates of 6.3% and 5.3%, respectively, reflecting the industry’s diversified capabilities.
2.2.2 Wages and Employment Conditions
The competitive advantage of Vietnam’s textile and garment industry is partly driven by its
relatively low labor costs. Average nominal monthly wages range from approximately USD215-
280 in Vietnam, placing it in the middle range compared to countries like Indonesia, Pakistan, and
Sri Lanka, where wages are lower, and Thailand, where wages are higher at around USD362 (ILO,
2021). When adjusted for purchasing power parity (PPP), the wage gap between countries narrows,
though Vietnam remains an attractive option for cost-sensitive manufacturing. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 7
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
AVERAGE MONTHLY WAGE ACROSS COUNTRIES
Source: ILO labor survey
FIGURE 3
362
275
250
218
161
144
139
120
Thailand
Vietnam
Cambodia
Philippines
Current $US
Sri Lanka
Bangladesh
Myanmar
Pakistan
Despite these competitive wages, employment in the sector is characterized by a high proportion
of temporary contractual arrangements. While Vietnam has the lowest share of informal employment
among its peers, with only 25% of workers in the informal sector compared to 96% in Bangladesh
and 76% in Cambodia, temporary workers still face significant job insecurity and limited access to
social protection (ILO, 2021). Many workers are employed under casual contracts or as daily
laborers, making them vulnerable to labor market fluctuations and global demand changes,
particularly in the garment subsector.
2.2.3 Skill Development and Workforce Challenges
Figure 4 highlights the gender distribution and educational attainment among workers. It reveals
that a significant proportion of the workforce, particularly female workers, occupies lower-skilled
positions with limited educational qualifications, while consistently contributing a smaller
proportion of workers with higher education levels (university and above) in both the garment and
textile sectors.
8 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
LABOR BY GENDER AND EDUCATION LEVEL ACROSS TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Source: ILO survey 2018
FIGURE 4
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
%
1. Never attended school
2. Not graduated from primary
3. Not graduated from Lower
Secondary school
4. Not graduated from Upper
Secondary school
5. Graduated from Upper
Secondary school
6. Elementary school
7. Intermediate Training level
8. College training level
9. University and above
1. Never attended school
2. Not graduated from primary
3. Not graduated from Lower
Secondary school
4. Not graduated from Upper
Secondary school
5. Graduated from Upper
Secondary school
6. Elementary school
7. Intermediate Training level
8. College training level
9. University and above
Textile
Garment
Male
Female
With the new wave of digitalization and new requirements to go green in production, the industry
faces a pressing need to upskill its workforce, particularly in the textile subsector, where advanced
technical skills are required for operating and maintaining sophisticated machinery. One of the
core issues is the persistent mismatch between the skills provided by educational institutions and
the practical requirements of the industry. Many training programs are outdated, lacking focus on
modern technology, digital tools, and advanced machinery essential for the industry’s evolution.
As Vietnam climbs the global value chain, employers need workers proficient in handling
automation, data-driven production processes, and high-precision manufacturing tasks. However,
the current workforce often lacks these competencies, which constrains the industry’s ability to
innovate and grow, particularly in high-value areas like textile design, fabric engineering, and
sustainable production practices. Employers frequently cite difficulties in finding technically
skilled workers who can perform non-routine tasks required in more complex, innovation-driven
environments, exacerbating the skills gap.
In addition to these skill-based challenges, high employee turnover rates further impede workforce
development in the textile and garment sector (around 36% in 2020). Although the industry offers
employment to millions, low wages, job insecurity—especially for those on temporary or informal
contracts—and poor working conditions drive many workers to seek better opportunities. This
frequent turnover makes it costly for companies to train and retrain workers, limiting investment
in long-term skills development. Moreover, widespread misconceptions about the industry persist,
particularly among younger workers. Many perceive textile manufacturing as outdated, low-tech, NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 9
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
and physically demanding, dominated by repetitive tasks like cut, make, and trim (CMT) operations.
These outdated perceptions, combined with practical concerns such as poor occupational health
and safety standards—ranging from high dust concentration and noise levels to inadequate lighting
and heat—discourage potential workers from entering the industry. Beyond these misconceptions,
practical challenges also deter labor attraction. The sector continues to struggle with offering
competitive wages, particularly in higher value-added roles that go beyond basic manufacturing
tasks. Occupational health and safety concerns, including difficult working conditions with
excessive heat, humidity, and poor ventilation, also play a significant role in hampering labor
retention. These factors not only affect worker morale and productivity but also compound the
industry’s difficulty in attracting new talent, particularly as Vietnam seeks to shift toward more
advanced, sustainable, and technology-driven manufacturing practices.
Demographically, there has been a noticeable shift from younger to middle-aged workers within
the industry, indicating an aging workforce. The aging workforce in certain subsectors, particularly
in textile production, poses additional challenges. This demographic transition necessitates
strategic workforce planning initiatives focused on skills development, career advancement
opportunities, and ensuring sustainable labor practices amidst changing labor market dynamics.
2.2.4 Gender and Labor Mobility
The industry’s workforce is predominantly female, particularly in the garment subsector, where
women represent more than 70% of the labor force (VITAS, 2021). This gendered labor composition
has provided significant employment opportunities for women, but it has also raised issues related
to gender wage disparities and career advancement limitations. Addressing these gender inequities
will be vital for improving labor conditions and promoting more inclusive growth in the industry.
Gender disparity remains a persistent challenge within Vietnam’s textile and garment industry,
especially in terms of income inequality between female and male workers. Over the past decade,
wages have grown for both genders, but the growth rate has been consistently lower for women
compared to men. From 2010 to 2020, textile wages in Vietnam increased by 6.9% for males and
6.1% for females, while garment wages grew by 7.2% for males and 6.1% for females (ILO, 2021).
Although wage growth in Vietnam was higher than in countries like Pakistan and the Philippines,
it lagged behind Cambodia and Myanmar, where textile wages for males grew by 13.2% and 8.1%,
respectively, and for females by 10.1% and 8.7%. Despite this, Vietnam’s wage growth has been
relatively balanced between genders, reflecting consistent improvements in both sectors.
Although there has been improvement in the wage gap, with the ratio of female to male income
rising from 0.83 in 2012 to 0.90 in 2021, a significant gender disparity persists in the industry.
Women constitute a significant majority of the workforce, particularly in garment manufacturing,
where labor-intensive processes such as CMT are predominant. These roles tend to offer lower
wages and limited career advancement opportunities compared to more skilled positions, which
are often occupied by men. Female workers are over-represented among the sector’s low-wage
earners, with a high percentage earning less than two-thirds of the median income.
10 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
GROWTH RATE OF REAL MONTHLY WAGE OF EMPLOYEES ACROSS COUNTRIES IN THE PERIOD 2010-2020
Source: ILO
FIGURE 5
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Textile
Garment
Cambodia
Myanmar
Pakistan
Philippines
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Vietnam
Male
Female
Male
Female
6.9
1.6
5.6
1.2
2.8
8.1
11.7
6.1
0.8
5
1.1
3.9
8.7
9.7
7.2
2
6.2
1.2
-0.4
8
12.2
6.1
0
2.8
0.7
3.4
7.1
1.3
growth rate
(%)
Furthermore, despite their critical role in the industry, many female garment, textile, and footwear
(GTF) employees face additional challenges due to the gendered nature of the workplace. The
sector is often described as being “female-dominated at the bottom and male-dominated at the top”
where women occupy the majority of low-skilled roles, while men hold higher-paying, managerial
positions (Vaughn et al., 2019).
In addition to wage disparities, educational attainment also highlights the unequal opportunities
faced by women in the textile and garment sectors. A significant proportion of the female workforce
occupies lower-skilled positions with limited educational qualifications, and they consistently
contribute a smaller proportion of workers with higher education levels (university and above).
This educational disparity further limits women’s opportunities for advancement into higher-
paying, skilled positions within the industry.
Labor mobility is another significant trend, with many workers migrating from rural to urban areas,
where the majority of textile and garment factories are located. Provinces such as Ho Chi Minh
City, Binh Duong, and Dong Nai are key manufacturing hubs, and internal migration has played a
crucial role in shaping the workforce dynamics in these regions. However, these workers often lack
access to formal education and training, perpetuating a cycle of low skills and limited mobility,
which pose major challenges for the industry.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 11
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Moreover, migrant female workers, who make up a large portion of the workforce in industrial
zones, face acute challenges. These migrant workers often experience difficulties accessing basic
social services, with 90% reporting problems in their destination provinces. Specifically, 71% of
migrant female workers lack access to public health services (Oxfam & CNCĐ Institute, 2021),
exacerbating their vulnerabilities.
2.3 Labor Productivity
Labor productivity in Vietnam’s garment and textile industry remains relatively low compared to
global benchmarks. While the country benefits from a young and sizable labor force, productivity
has been constrained by outdated technology and inefficient production practices. Recent efforts to
improve productivity have focused on modernizing equipment, improving worker training, and
streamlining production processes (Nguyen et al., 2021). However, despite these initiatives,
productivity growth remains uneven across the sector. Figure 6 provides a snapshot of the labor
productivity growth in Vietnam’s textile and garment industry.
VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY GROWTH
Source: Author calculation from GSO data
FIGURE 6
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
(%)
(%)
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
3.96
4.34
0.56
0.86
0.52
1.15
0.74
1.23
0
1
2
3
4
5
Textile
Garment
Garment
Textile
Labor Productivity Growth from 2009 to 2022
Labor productivity growth fell sharply post-COVID-19 but is
now recovering, with the garment sector showing promise
through automation and global supply chain integration.
Labor Productivity Growth Decomposition in 2022
Over 65% of productivity gains
are driven by increased
capital per worker.
Productivity driven by
technology adoption and
eﬃciency improvements.
Capital Deepening
Tech Frontier Expansion
Tech Adoption
Eﬃciency Improvement
12 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Figure 7 highlights notable trends in labor productivity growth within Vietnam’s textile and
garment subsectors between 2009 and 2022. While there have been efforts to modernize equipment,
improve worker training, and streamline production, productivity growth is uneven across the
industry. Over this period, there is a clear distinction between the performance of different textile-
related industries and the garment sector, revealing divergent productivity trajectories.
LABOR PRODUCTIVITY GROWTH ACROSS TEXTILE AND GARMENT SUBSECTORS OVER 2009-2022 PERIOD
Source: Author calculation from GSO data
FIGURE 7
0.00
2.00
4.00
6.00
8.00
10.00
12.00
14.00
16.00
(%)
Knitted and
Crocheted
Apparel
Fur Apparel
Wearing
Apparel,
Except Fur
Apparel
Other
Textiles
N.E.C.
Carpets and
Rugs
Made-up
Textile
Articles,
Except
Apparel
Knitted and
Crocheted
Fabrics
Finishing of
Textiles
Weaving of
Textiles
Preparation
and
Spinning of
Textile
Fibers
2009-2015
2016-2022
2009-2022
The garment subsector has shown more promising growth in labor productivity. Wearing Apparel,
Except Fur Apparel, one of the most critical subsectors in Vietnam’s garment industry, experienced
an increase in productivity growth from 5.64% (2009–2015) to 7.37% (2016–2022). Notably, the
Knitted and Crocheted Apparel subsector witnessed a substantial rise in productivity, surging from
7.39% to 13.80% over the same periods. This encouraging growth can be attributed to the sector’s
increasing focus on automation, the adoption of modern technologies, and Vietnam’s growing
integration into global supply chains.
The shift toward more value-added production processes, such as higher-end apparel manufacturing,
has also contributed to the overall productivity gains in the garment subsector. However, continued
investment in workforce training, particularly in non-routine, technical tasks, will be necessary to
sustain this upward trajectory and further drive productivity growth.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 13
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
In contrast, labor productivity in the textile subsector has generally experienced a decline in growth
rate, particularly after 2015. For example, the Preparation and Spinning of Textile Fibers subsector
saw a sharp drop in productivity growth from 6.76% (2009–2015) to 3.21% (2016–2022). Similarly,
productivity growth in “Weaving of Textiles” decreased slightly from 6.87% to 6.48%, while
“Finishing of Textiles” dropped from 7.05% to 5.58%. These declines suggest that, despite
technological advances and increased demand, the productivity of the labor force in these subsectors
has not kept pace with the sector’s expansion.
DISTANCE BETWEEN THE 3% MOST PRODUCTIVE FIRMS AND THE REMAINING 97% OF FIRMS
ACROSS GARMENT AND TEXTILE SUBSECTORS OVER TIME
Source: Author calculation based on GSO survey data
FIGURE 8
2022
Weaving of textiles
Manufacture of other textiles N.E.C.
Manufacture of wearing apparel, except fur apparel
Finishing of textiles
Manufacture of knitted and crocheted fabrics
Manufacture of made-up textile articles, except apparel
Spinning of textile ﬁbres
Manufacture of knitted and crocheted apparel
Manufacture of carpets and rugs
Manufacture of articles of fur
Manufacture of cordage, rope, twine and netting
7.4
6.2
16.0
8.6
9.1
9.0
39.2
23.6
5.2
3.2
21.2
8.3
30.1
16.6
15.4
4.9
5.0
4.8
43.3
23.9
3.6
1.5
33.9
6.2
5.2
0.9
14.2
4.6
7.5
4.4
22.8
12.6
9.3
3.8
43.0
17.9
23.9
11.9
20.4
5.1
5.7
5.1
20.5
7.5
2008
TIME
Labor productivity ratio
(times)
Capital labor ratio
(times)
Labor productivity ratio
(times)
Capital labor ratio
(times)
Several factors, such as reliance on outdated machinery, a lack of skilled labor, and slow adaptation
to automation, may have contributed to this slowdown. These decreases may also reflect the
broader challenge of transitioning from labor-intensive, low-value-added production processes to
more capital-intensive, high-value-added activities in the textile subsector. This shift often requires
a longer adaptation period, as it involves significant investments in technology, infrastructure, and
workforce training before the full benefits can be realized. The slower productivity growth indicates
that many firms are still in the process of upgrading their operations to meet the demands of more
advanced production techniques.
14 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Figure 8 presents a comparative analysis of labor productivity and capital-labor ratios across
Vietnam’s textile and garment subsectors from 2009 to 2022, focusing on the top 3% of most
productive firms versus the rest. In the weaving of textiles sector, top firms increased their labor
productivity ratio from 7.4 times in 2009 to 16.0 times in 2022, with a corresponding rise in their
capital-labor ratio from 6.2 to 8.6 times. Similarly, in the manufacture of knitted and crocheted
fabrics, leading firms saw their labor productivity ratio soar from 5.0 to 43.3 times over the same
period, while their capital-labor ratio jumped from 4.8 to 23.9 times. These figures underscore a
widening gap between frontier firms and the industry average, indicating substantial disparities in
technological adoption and operational efficiency. While top firms continue to invest significantly
in modernization, the broader industry faces challenges in narrowing this gap, necessitating
enhanced efforts to improve overall competitiveness and sustainability.
The growth in labor productivity can be decomposed into: (i) capital intensity or capital deepening
and (ii) growth in total factor productivity (TFP). To further identify contributors to labor
productivity growth, in the report, we utilized the conditional frontier model to investigate the
main contributors to TFP growth among garment and textile subsectors. The conditional frontier
model examines how an industry in Vietnam is operating in relation to the country’s best and most
efficient firm while taking into account the challenges in adopting technologies at the firm level.
As a result,  TFP growth is further decomposed into (i) the increase in technology adoption
investment, allowing firms to adopt technologies that are available in the industry; (ii) the efforts
of frontier firms to adopt leading technologies to lift up the potential technology frontier (conditional
frontier) of the industry; and (iii) the effort of firms at the average level to increase efficiency
through learning by doing, organizational innovation or implementing quality management tools.
The model utilizes the micro-level data from the business survey conducted by GSO.
LABOR PRODUCTIVITY GROWTH DECOMPOSITION ACROSS TEXTILE AND GARMENT SUBSECTOR IN
THE 2009-2022 PERIOD
Source: Author calculation based on GSO survey data
FIGURE 9
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
(%)
Knitted and
Crocheted
Apparel
Fur Apparel
Wearing
Apparel,
Except Fur
Apparel
Other
Textiles
N.E.C.
Carpets and
Rugs
Made-up
Textile
Articles,
Except
Apparel
Knitted and
Crocheted
Fabrics
Finishing of
Textiles
Weaving of
Textiles
Preparation
and
Spinning of
Textile
Fibers
Capital deepening
Tech  Frontier Expansion
Tech Adoption
Eﬃciency Improvement
LP growth
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 15
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Across most subsectors, capital deepening is the major driver of LP growth. The reliance on capital
investment suggests that firms are focusing on investing in machinery, expanding production
capacity, and intensifying automation. Most subsectors rely heavily on capital deepening to boost
labor productivity growth during the 2009-2022 period. The textile subsector—encompassing
activities such as Preparation and Spinning of Textile Fibers, Weaving of Textiles, and Manufacture
of Other Textiles N.E.C.—demonstrates a particularly strong reliance on capital deepening, with
over 65% of productivity improvements coming from increased capital per worker. For instance,
Weaving of Textiles and Preparation and Spinning of Textile Fibers report that 70% and 67%,
respectively, of their labor productivity gains are due to capital deepening, highlighting the sector’s
investment in modern machinery, advanced production techniques, and infrastructural upgrades.
This trend reflects the capital-intensive nature of traditional textile production, where machinery
upgrades and new technologies are vital for boosting efficiency and maintaining competitiveness
in global markets.
Conditional Frontier Model
In this report we utilize a conditional frontier model to estimate the impact of technology
adoption on economic growth. In particular, the conditional frontier model examines how
an industry in Vietnam is operating in relation to the country’s best and most efficient firms.
There are two ‘frontiers’ developed: one that takes into consideration all the barriers to
technology adoption (the conditional frontier); and one that looks at how the industry would
operate if all barriers to technology adoption were removed (the unconditional frontier).
In this report, a dynamic version of the conditional frontier model is used, which considers
changes over time. In this dynamic model, the movement of the two frontiers, together with
the movement of the industry average, help to decompose output per worker growth into
different components. In particular, the growth in output per worker can be decomposed
into: (i) capital intensity; (ii) the increase in technology adoption investment, allowing firms
to adopt technologies that are available in the industry; (iii) the efforts of frontier firms to
adopt leading technologies to lift up the potential technology frontier (conditional frontier)
of the industry; and (iv) the effort of firms at the average level to increase efficiency through
learning by doing, organizational innovation, or implementing quality management tools.
The various actions firms can take to increase innovation, as well as the impact these efforts
have on the components of output per worker growth, are summarized in Figure 10 below.
16 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
DYNAMIC CONDITIONAL FRONTIER MODEL
Source: Author calculation based on GSO survey data
FIGURE 10
Labor
Productivity
Eﬃciency improvement = (a) - (b)
Technology adoption eﬀort = (c) - (d)
CAPITAL PER WORKER
Unconditional frontier at t2
Unconditional frontier at t1
Capital
deepening
Frontier lift-up
The industry at t1
The industry at t2
Conditional frontier at t1
Conditional frontier at t2
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
The data of the analysis comes from the Business survey from the General Statistic Office of
Vietnam (GSO). GSO and its sub-institutions have conducted the Enterprise Survey to collect
information on enterprises operating in Vietnam at the end of each year since 2000. This is a
firm-level survey of a representative sample of an economy’s private sector across all
geographic regions. These include enterprises established and regulated by the Enterprise
Law; Cooperatives society/cooperatives union/people’s credit funds operating under the
Cooperative Law, and established enterprises which are subjected to the regulation of
specialized laws such as the Law on Insurance and the Law on Securities.
On the other hand, the garment subsector—including Manufacture of Wearing Apparel, Except Fur
Apparel, Manufacture of Fur Apparel, and Manufacture of Knitted and Crocheted Apparel—shows
a more balanced approach between capital deepening and TFP growth. Capital deepening accounts
for a lower proportion of labor productivity growth in these subsectors compared to textiles, with
the Manufacture of Wearing Apparel at 55.3% and Manufacture of Knitted and Crocheted Apparel
even lower at 41.2%. This indicates that while capital investments are still important, these garment
subsectors rely more heavily on improvements in TFP. This shift can be attributed to factors such
as labor-intensive production processes, flexible manufacturing systems, and operational efficiency
improvements that allow the garment sector to achieve productivity gains without the same level
of capital investment required in textile manufacturing.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 17
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Figure 11 presents the components of TFP growth—technology frontier development, technology
adoption, and efficiency improvements—while highlighting diverse strategies across subsectors.
TFP DECOMPOSITIONS OVER TIME ACROSS GARMENT AND TEXTILE SUBSECTORS IN 2009-2022
IN VIETNAM
Source: Author calculation based on GSO survey
FIGURE 11
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Manufacture of Preparation and Spinning of Textile Fibers
Manufacture of Weaving of Textiles
Manufacture of Finishing of Textiles
Manufacture of Knitted and Crocheted Fabrics
Manufacture of Made-up Textile Articles, Except Apparel
Manufacture of Carpets and Rugs
Manufacture of Other Textiles N.E.C.
Manufacture of Wearing Apparel, Except Fur Apparel
Manufacture of Fur Apparel
Manufacture of Knitted and Crocheted Apparel
Tech  Frontier Expansion
Tech Adoption
Eﬃciency Improvement
The textile subsector shows a strong reliance on technology investments, with much of its labor
productivity (LP) growth coming from either frontier firms pushing the technological boundaries
or from an increased rate of technology adoption across average firms. For instance, in subsectors
like Preparation and Spinning of Textile Fibers and Weaving of Textiles, we observe that a
significant portion of TFP growth is driven by advancements at the technological frontier (42.3%
and 33.4%, respectively) as well as increased adoption of existing technologies (43.4% and 45.4%,
respectively). This pattern indicates that textile subsectors benefit more directly from investments
that raise both the ceiling of technological capabilities and diffuse these innovations throughout the
industry. In contrast, efficiency improvements, though present, contribute a relatively smaller
share to growth in these subsectors, reflecting a focus on technological rather than operational
advances. Since textile manufacturing requires significant machinery, and while Lean and 5S are
also implemented to improve process efficiency, the emphasis is more on Total Productive
Maintenance (TPM), quality management systems, and energy-saving technologies to optimize
machine uptime and reduce waste in material production. In this sector, tools like Six Sigma are
also used to control quality and reduce variation in production, which is vital in maintaining
consistent fabric quality. However, the full adoption of productivity tools like Lean is somewhat
limited in smaller firms, where traditional practices dominate.
18 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
The garment subsector, however, exhibits a more balanced approach between technological
adoption and improvements in operational efficiency through the application of productivity tools.
Sectors such as Manufacture of Wearing Apparel and Manufacture of Fur Apparel highlight the
importance of efficiency improvements, where these tools play a crucial role. For instance, the
Manufacture of Fur Apparel sees 52.3% of its TFP growth stemming from efficiency gains, largely
driven by the adoption of productivity methodologies like 5S, Lean, and other operational
optimizations. The manufacture of wearing apparel, though relying more on technology adoption
to increase labor productivity, also benefits from applying productivity tools (31%).
In general, in the garment subsector, which involves labor-intensive processes like cutting, sewing,
and assembling garments, the adoption of Lean and 5S practices is widespread. This is largely due
to the focus on reducing waste, increasing efficiency, and improving production timelines to meet
fast-changing global demand, particularly in the fashion industry. Lean manufacturing helps in
managing flow, reducing excess inventory, and streamlining operations, which is vital in the
garment sector where production speed and flexibility are critical. This balance between technology
adoption and process improvements positions the garment subsector to achieve sustained
productivity gains through better utilization of existing resources and refined production processes.
2.4 Energy Efficiency and Green Growth: Pioneering Vietnam’s Textile
and Garment Future
Energy efficiency and green growth have become critical imperatives for the textile and garment
industry in Vietnam, driven by both national policies and international obligations. As one of the
world’s most energy-intensive industries, this sector faces mounting pressure to reduce its carbon
footprint and transition to more sustainable practices. The Vietnam National Green Growth Strategy
2021-2030, for example, mandates reductions in energy consumption and carbon emissions as part
of the country’s broader commitment to the Paris Agreement. This aligns with Vietnam’s pledge to
reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. Energy consumption is a major concern for Vietnam’s
textile and garment industry, which is highly energy-intensive. The overall energy consumption in
the sector doubled from approximately 2,272 KTOE (thousand tons of oil equivalent) in 2016 to
around 4,226 KTOE in 2020. Figure 12 provides an overview of energy consumption in the textile
and garment sector in Vietnam. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 19
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
ENERGY USE INTENSITY AND DISTRIBUTION IN VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT SECTORS
Source: UNESCAP and DEPP, 2023
FIGURE 12
2,943
3,019
3,867
4,176
4,226
2,500
2,700
2,900
3,100
3,300
3,500
3,700
3,900
4,100
4,300
4,500
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Energy Consumption (KTOE)
Textile and garment total energy
consumption doubled from
2,943 KTOE in 2016 to
4,226 KTOE in 2020.
Textiles are Vietnam’s third-largest energy consumer,
with costs 1.5–1.7 times higher than in Thailand, China,
and Malaysia, and face high energy costs due to outdated
machinery and intensive water usage.
The garment sector advances energy eﬃciency
though SMEs face challenges with outdated tech and
fast fashion demands.
Textile is the third largest energy consumer in the economy in the 2016-2020 period. Energy costs
in Vietnam’s garment factories are also higher compared to regional competitors. Vietnamese firms
spend 1.5 to 1.7 times more on energy than their counterparts in Thailand, China, and Malaysia. In
total, the industry spends approximately USD3 billion annually on energy, with electricity alone
accounting for 8% of production costs. In the dyeing subsector, energy costs make up 14% of
production expenses (IFC 2018). 20 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
VIETNAM INCREASINGLY SHIFTED TOWARD ENERGY-INTENSIFIED PRODUCTION OVER TIME
Source: UNESCAP and DEPP, 2023
FIGURE 13
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000
Mining
Food, beverage and tobacco processing
Textile
Wood and products from wood
Pulp and paper
Chemical production
Metallic production
Manufacturing machinery and equipment
Manufacturing products from other non-metallic minerals
Producing motor vehicles
Construction
Other industrial subsectors
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2.4.1 Green Growth and Energy Efficiency in the Textile Subsector
Vietnam’s textile subsector, particularly the spinning, weaving, and dyeing stages, presents
enormous potential for resource-efficient upgrades. Dyeing machines and stenter frames are
primary energy consumers, ripe for technological improvements. High-efficiency stenter machines,
thermal oil heaters, and wastewater heat recovery systems have been identified as promising
technologies for reducing both electricity and heat consumption.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 21
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
ENERGY CONSUMPTION DECOMPOSITION IN A TEXTILE FACTORY
Source: IFC, 2018
FIGURE 14
Dyeing
59%
Stenter
30%
Shrinking
11%
However, outdated machinery remains a significant barrier. According to a survey conducted by
VECEA (2017-2018), nearly 13% of dyeing equipment was over 17 years old, while another 34%
was under 10 years old. This reliance on older, less efficient technologies increases not only energy
consumption but also water and chemical usage, reducing the overall competitiveness of Vietnam’s
textile products in global markets.
Furthermore, the industry faces challenges related to intensive water usage in wet processing
stages like dyeing, where machines with liquor ratios of 1:10 to 1:15 consume substantial amounts
of water and produce large volumes of wastewater (VECEA, 2018). This type of machine consumes
large amounts of water, leading to high wastewater treatment costs and associated environmental fees.
In recent years, the textile industry has started implementing green technologies to address these
challenges. New systems for optimizing boilers and steam generation, alongside improved air
supply controls, have demonstrated significant energy savings. Solar energy is also playing an
increasing role, particularly in dyeing operations, where solar thermal technologies are used for hot
water generation. This can potentially meet up to 80% of hot water needs, greatly reducing fuel
costs. Moreover, rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) solutions are becoming more common under
build-lease-transfer (BLT) models, where factories can purchase clean energy generated on-site
without upfront investment. Enterprises are also utilizing automated control systems to manage air
supply and optimize blowdown water based on total dissolved solids (TDS) levels, further
improving energy performance.
On the water treatment front, dyeing facilities have started recovering and reusing water and
thermal energy from high-temperature dyeing machines. Technologies like reverse osmosis (R.O.)
are being applied to recycle treated wastewater back into the dyeing process. These efforts not only
reduce water consumption but also cut down the pollutants in wastewater, making it easier for
factories to comply with environmental regulations.
22 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
2.4.2 Sustainability in the Garment Subsector: A Growing Trend
Compared to textiles, the garment subsector has seen more progress in implementing energy
efficiency measures. The adoption of LED lighting, energy-efficient sewing machines, and smart
energy management systems has helped reduce energy consumption in production facilities.
International collaborations with brands such as H&M and Nike have accelerated this trend, as
these brands require their suppliers to meet specific sustainability criteria.
The garment subsector, while less energy-intensive than the textile subsector, still has significant
opportunities for energy savings. The industry is dominated by small- to medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs), which often operate with outdated technologies, leading to inefficiencies in both energy
and water consumption. SMEs in the garment sector often lack awareness of energy-saving
technologies or face financial barriers to upgrading their machinery and systems. Key systems
such as sewing machines, air compressors, irons, and lighting consume significant amounts of
energy, offering substantial opportunities for savings through modernization.
Many factories in the garment subsector are turning to solar energy for their energy needs. Solar
panel installations on factory rooftops provide renewable energy, reducing reliance on grid
electricity. Notable projects, such as the installation of 11 MWp of solar PV rooftop systems by Tan
De Company, one of Vietnam’s largest garment exporters, demonstrate the sector’s shift toward
cleaner energy. These systems are expected to generate 12,603 MWh annually and reduce 8,527 tons
of CO2 emissions per year, aligning Vietnamese manufacturers with international green standards.
Global brands are playing a crucial role in advancing sustainability efforts among Vietnamese
garment factories, with companies like H&M Group setting ambitious targets to reduce their
environmental impact. H&M, for example, aims to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas
emissions and transition entirely to renewable electricity in its operations by 2030, based on 2019
levels, with an overarching objective of achieving net-zero emissions by 2040 (HM Group 2022).
The company’s sustainability strategy includes reducing reliance on virgin materials by
incorporating more recycled content into its products. Additionally, H&M is actively working to
phase out coal-based energy in its supply chain, especially in Vietnam. To this end, the brand has
halted partnerships with new suppliers using on-site coal boilers and provides financial support to
existing factories, enabling them to adopt energy-efficient technologies and sustainable alternatives
to fossil fuels. This comprehensive approach underscores H&M’s commitment to fostering a
greener, more sustainable garment manufacturing industry in Vietnam.
Despite these advancements, the garment subsector still faces considerable challenges. Many
Vietnamese garment factories, especially SMEs, operate with outdated equipment, impacting both
energy and water efficiency. High energy-consuming equipment, such as sewing machines, air
compressors, irons, and lighting systems, often remains in use due to the prohibitive costs of
modernizing. While advanced automation technologies—like smart sensors and real-time energy
management systems—are available, financial and knowledge barriers make their adoption
difficult for SMEs.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 23
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
In addition, the traditional structure of the clothing industry often prioritizes low costs and rapid
turnaround times, which can conflict with sustainability goals. Transitioning to more eco-friendly
production practices involves addressing significant challenges:
•
Costs of Sustainable Practices: Using organic materials and adopting eco-friendly technologies
increase production costs. This can lead to higher retail prices, posing a challenge in a market
largely driven by fast fashion.
•
Supply Chain Transparency: The complexity of global supply chains makes it challenging to
ensure sustainable practices across all stages, from sourcing materials to production and
distribution.
•
Consumer Awareness and Market Demand: Although consumer awareness of environmental
impact is growing, many buyers still prioritize affordability. Sustainable brands must navigate
this price-sensitive market while promoting the value of ethical production.
•
Scalability: While smaller-scale sustainable practices are achievable, scaling them up for large
volumes presents additional costs and logistical complexities.
•
Regulatory Framework: The absence of uniform sustainability standards and enforcement
mechanisms across countries hinders broader adoption of sustainable practices.
•
Certification and Verification: Obtaining certifications such as Fair Trade or Organic can be
time-consuming and expensive, especially for SMEs. Ensuring these standards are upheld
across complex supply chains requires dedicated resources.
•
Technical Innovation: The industry still requires advancements in developing eco-friendly
materials and production processes that reduce waste and energy use.
•
Fast Fashion Competition: The continued popularity of fast fashion, with its low costs and rapid
product turnover, poses a significant obstacle to the widespread adoption of sustainable practices
within the garment sector.
These challenges underscore the need for a concerted effort among manufacturers, brands,
regulatory bodies, and consumers to transform Vietnam’s garment subsector into a model of ethical
and sustainable production. While progress is being made, comprehensive and sustained efforts
will be essential to make lasting change. Automation technologies, such as smart sensors and
control systems, are helping optimize energy usage by responding to real-time demand, thus
reducing energy waste. In addition, regular maintenance of equipment and process optimization
can prevent energy and water losses in garment factories. 24 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
ENERGY CONSUMPTION DECOMPOSITION IN A GARMENT FACTORY
Source: IFC, 2018
FIGURE 15
Dormitory 2%
Printing 4%
Bonding 3%
Canteen 4%
Embroidery
Oﬃce
Cutting
Lighting
Ventilation
Others
Iron press
Air compressors
Sewing machine
LAB 0%
Pattern 1%
Sample 1%
Wastewater treatment 1%
5%
5%
6%
6%
6%
6%
11%
18%
21%
2.5 Supply Chain Participation
Vietnam’s integration into the global textile and garment supply chain has intensified in recent
years, driven by competitive manufacturing advantages and key trade agreements such as the
Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the EU-
Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (EVFTA). These agreements provide preferential market access,
boosting foreign direct investment (FDI) and embedding Vietnam even further into global networks.
Vietnam’s textile and garment industry is supported by a well-established production network,
ranging from raw material processing to the export of finished garments. This network consists of
a diverse range of SMEs and larger firms, creating a flexible and adaptable production ecosystem.
This allows Vietnam to respond rapidly to shifting global demands and trends, enhancing its
competitiveness in the international market.
A diverse production landscape characterizes Vietnam’s textile and garment supply chain, which
can be divided into design, raw material production, manufacturing, and branding/marketing
stages. These stages present distinct challenges and opportunities that influence the industry’s
efficiency and competitiveness. However, discrepancies between the textile and garment sectors
are evident, particularly in terms of raw material dependence and net export performance.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 25
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
TNG Investment and Trading JSC
A notable example of effective energy efficiency practices is TNG Investment and Trading
JSC, a prominent textile and garment manufacturer in Vietnam. Beginning in 2018, TNG
undertook a significant energy efficiency initiative supported by the VNEEIP. The company’s
approach included a comprehensive set of upgrades to optimize energy use and reduce
carbon emissions (VNEEIP, 2022). Key upgrades included the replacement of outdated
boilers with high-efficiency models, the transition to LED lighting, and the modernization
of production equipment and HVAC systems. These measures improved fuel combustion
efficiency from 70% to 85%, resulting in a 15% reduction in fuel consumption
(VNEEIP, 2022).
Additionally, the switch to LED lighting achieved a 30% reduction in electricity use for
lighting. Upgrades to production machinery and HVAC systems also contributed to a 20%
decrease in energy consumption, leading to annual cost savings of approximately VND10.5
billion (about USD450,000) and a reduction in carbon emissions by approximately 18,000
tons per year (TNG Investment and Trading JSC, 2019). TNG’s successful energy efficiency
program earned the Vietnam Energy Efficiency Award in 2019, recognizing the company’s
best practices in energy management and serving as a model for the Southeast Asian textile
and garment sector (Southeast Asia Energy Efficiency and Conservation Network (SEA-
EECN, 2020)).
Figure 16 provides a snapshot of export-import balances in Vietnam’s textile and garment industry.
VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT EXPORT-IMPORT BALANCES
Source: UN Comtrade
FIGURE 16
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100 %
2017
2018
2019
2020
15.3%
84.7%
11.6%
88.4%
15.6%
88.3%
84.4%
11.7%
14.8%
87.9%
85.2%
12.1%
86.1%
Garment
13.9%
88.0%
12.0%
Textile
In 2020, 60% of
textiles for garment
production were
imported, mainly from
China.
Strengthening local
sourcing and
integrating the supply
chain could enhance
sector resilience
against global market
changes.
Vietnam’s garment
sector has seen strong
export growth,
especially in knitted
and woven garments,
solidifying its global
market position.
The garment sector
faces challenges due to
reliance on Cut, Make,
and Trim processes,
limiting value addition.
and dependence on
imported fabrics.
Import
Export
26 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
2.5.1 Textile Sector: Reliance on Imported Input
Vietnam’s textile sector remains highly dependent on imported raw materials, particularly yarns
and fabrics, which are mostly sourced from competitive neighboring countries such as China, the
Republic of Korea (ROK), the Republic of China (ROC), and Thailand. In 2020, 60% of the textiles
used for garment production were imported, with China being the primary supplier. Key categories
like cotton, man-made filaments, and knitted fabrics consistently show a negative trade balance,
highlighting the challenges of building a competitive domestic textile supply chain.
In 2020, Vietnam faced a USD10.9 billion trade deficit in cotton and a USD12.3 billion deficit in
man-made filaments (Figure 16). The only positive balance was seen in textile fabrics (HS59),
which had a surplus of USD365 million. Similarly, man-made filaments (HS54) registered large
negative net exports, reaching USD14.02 billion in 2019 before improving to USD12.35 billion in
2020. While the trade deficit in knitted fabrics (HS60) remained significant, the industry recorded
a surplus in textile fabrics (HS59), achieving positive net exports ranging from USD309 million in
2017 to USD443 million in 2019. These figures reveal the significant gap between the success of
the garment sector and the underdevelopment of the domestic textile industry, which is still reliant
on imports for essential materials.
2.5.2 Garment Sector: Strong Export Growth but Limited Value Addition
The textile and garment industry in Vietnam is heavily oriented towards exports, with approximately
85-87% of its production targeted at international markets. In 2022, Vietnam exported textiles
worth USD48.8 billion, making it the third-largest textile exporter in the world. That same year,
textiles ranked as the second most exported product in Vietnam, reflecting the sector’s significance
to the national economy. The primary destinations for Vietnam’s textile exports include the USA,
which accounted for USD19.1 billion, followed by Japan at USD4.72 billion, the ROK at USD4.39
billion, China at USD3.52 billion, and Canada at USD1.57 billion (OEC, 2024).
One of the key drivers behind the 6.3% increase in Vietnam’s textile and garment exports in 2022
was the surge in global demand. Rising consumer demand in major markets, including the USA,
Europe, and Asia, has led to increased orders for Vietnamese textiles and apparel. Additionally, the
post-pandemic recovery has created a surge in orders as countries seek to restock their inventories
and satisfy pent-up consumer demand, further propelling export growth.
•
Diversification of Export Markets: In recent years, Vietnam has made concerted efforts to
diversify its export markets beyond traditional destinations like the USA and the EU. This
strategic shift has allowed Vietnam to tap into emerging markets in Asia, Africa, and the Middle
East, forging new trade partnerships and creating lucrative opportunities for its textile and
garment exports. By expanding its market reach, Vietnam aims to reduce dependency on a
limited number of export destinations, ensuring a more stable and resilient export base.
•
Strategic Investments in Technology and Innovation: Vietnam’s textile and garment sector has
also benefited from strategic investments in technology and innovation. Manufacturers are
increasingly embracing automation, digitalization, and sustainable practices to enhance
efficiency, productivity, and quality in their production processes. This focus on modernization
not only improves operational efficiency but also positions Vietnam as a competitive player
in the global textile market, capable of meeting evolving consumer demands and
sustainability standards.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 27
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
•
Strategic Trade Agreements: The presence of key trade agreements has further bolstered the
industry’s growth. Agreements such as the CPTPP and the EVFTA have provided Vietnam with
tariff reductions and improved market access. These agreements have enhanced the
competitiveness of Vietnamese textiles and garments on the international stage, enabling the
country to capture a larger market share and attract new customers.
Vietnam’s garment sector has demonstrated remarkable export growth, particularly in knitted and
woven garments (HS61 and HS62). The efficiency of its production system and competitive pricing
have made Vietnam a significant player in global apparel markets. Notably, the country has
experienced substantial surpluses in both knitted and woven garments. For instance, net exports of
knitted garments rose from USD20.34 billion in 2017 to USD25.66 billion in 2019, before declining
slightly to USD23.33 billion in 2020. Similarly, net exports of woven garments increased from
USD9.55 billion in 2017 to a peak of USD11.49 billion in 2019, then decreased to USD10.82
billion in 2020.
Despite the impressive export figures, a critical challenge facing the garment sector is the reliance
on CMT production processes, which yield lower value addition compared to activities such as
design and raw material sourcing. This focus on CMT limits the industry’s ability to capture more
value within the global supply chain. Moreover, garment manufacturers remain dependent on
imported fabrics, underscoring the urgent need for stronger backward linkages within the domestic
supply chain. Enhancing local sourcing capabilities and fostering a more integrated supply chain
could not only improve value addition but also increase the resilience of the garment sector against
global market fluctuations.
2.5.3 The Vibrant Domestic Market
In recent years, Vietnam’s domestic fashion market has become increasingly vibrant, driven by
rising disposable incomes and evolving consumer preferences. Young consumers, particularly
those in Generation Z, are greatly influenced by social media and digital platforms like Shopee,
Instagram, YouTube, and TikTok. Their shopping behaviors are shaped by online content related to
skin care, makeup, accessories, and footwear, while a significant proportion of older consumers
have adapted to remote purchasing, reflecting a growing expectation for a seamless
shopping experience.
A survey conducted by Vinatex indicated a promising outlook for the apparel and textile sectors,
with consumer spending on clothing ranking just behind food. The average monthly expenditure
on clothing among respondents ranged from 150,000 to 500,000 VND, accounting for about 18%
of their total spending. Furthermore, nearly 70% of Vietnamese consumers reported shopping for
garments at least twice a month during the survey period (WTO Center, 2024).
In response to these market dynamics, Vietnamese garment companies are actively expanding their
distribution systems across the country. Despite the current dominance of Chinese-made products
in the local market, Vietnamese-made garments are gradually gaining traction. VinatexMart has
emerged as the leading retailer of locally made garments and fabrics, with major brands like Viet
Tien, Phong Phu, May 10, and Nha Be operating over 1,000 retail stores nationwide (Vinatex,
2024). This success is attributed to diversification in design, brand development, and an expanded
distribution network, as noted by Than Duc Viet, Executive Director of May 10.
28 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Recognizing the importance of sustainable development in the domestic market, Vietnamese
businesses have focused on improving product quality and diversifying their offerings to ensure
accessibility for consumers. Vietnam’s textile and garment industry is currently concentrated on
export markets. However, it is crucial to also consider the potential of the domestic market. The
industry’s production capacity stands at approximately USD50 billion, indicating that while the
domestic market capacity may be smaller, it remains significant.
The domestic garment market in Vietnam has long been served by a diverse array of small local
businesses, ranging from large private companies to informal, small-scale workshops. While
export-oriented garment firms are larger and more formalized, these local firms have managed to
meet international standards in terms of technology. Interestingly, they have also been involved in
more complex processes beyond just CMT operations, including design and marketing, which are
typically knowledge-intensive activities. Some domestic brands that are considered to have a
foothold in the market such as Viet Tien, Nha Be, An Phuoc, and Garment 10 mainly focus on the
office product segment.
The domestic fashion industry has become more vibrant, with the rise of young designers and
emerging brands. Local products, often sold through traditional markets, street vendors, and
e-commerce platforms, remain popular due to their affordability. The government has also
supported fashion incubators and initiatives to foster creativity and innovation in local design.
NET EXPORT ACROSS TEXTILE AND GARMENT SUBSECTORS IN VIETNAM OVER TIME
Source: UN Comtrade
FIGURE 17
HS58 (Fabrics, special woven)
HS59 (Textile fabrics, others)
HS54 (Man-made ﬁlaments)
HS55 (Man-made staple ﬁbres)
HS52 (Cotton)
HS61 (Knitted garments)
HS62 (Woven garments)
HS60 (Knitted fabrics)
-20,000
-15,000
-10,000
-5,000
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
2017
2018
2019
2020
($US mil)
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 29
CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Despite these opportunities, the domestic market presents challenges as well. Businesses need to
continuously innovate and adapt to new consumer trends to develop effective strategies. Improving
product quality and offering unique, valuable products are essential for competitiveness. For
instance, companies like Phong Phu and Viet Thang reported revenues exceeding VND1 trillion
(approximately USD47.6 million) from domestic sales last year.
However, despite this wider involvement, domestic firms tend to operate at a lower level of
technological sophistication and value addition. This gap is largely due to the limited transfer of
advanced technology from more developed countries, which has created a notable “export
premium” (Goto, 2014). As a result, two distinct value chains—one domestic and the other export-
oriented—have evolved side by side with very little interaction between them. The reorientation
toward local markets is expected to reshape value chains and shift priorities for many companies.
New market players may emerge, driving further change in the organization of supply chains and
the broader textile and garment industry landscape in Vietnam.
TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY SUPPLY CHAIN SMILING CURVE
Source: Author created, adapted from Goto, 2014
FIGURE 18
Process ﬂow
Domestic oriented smiling curve
Export oriented smiling curve
(3) Sourcing and procurement of input materials
(1) Branding and
(2) Product design
(5) Distribution and marketing
(4) Cut, Make and Trim
Value
added
30 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
3. MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND
GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
A megatrend is a long-term, pervasive shift that gradually gains momentum and reshapes the
economy. These trends emerge at the intersection of several smaller, time-specific trends. The
megatrends analysis for Vietnam’s textile and garment industry was conducted using horizon
scanning, a process that identified key economic, technological, social, geopolitical, legal, and
environmental trends expected to impact the sector. This analysis was further refined through
interviews (see Appendix 1 for interview methodology) and workshops with key stakeholders held in Hanoi in July and October 2024.
The input from these stakeholders provided valuable insights into the forces shaping the future of
the industry. Based on this comprehensive review, the research team identified seven megatrends
that are expected to drive Vietnam’s textile and garment industry up to 2045 (Figure 19). These
megatrends will influence everything from market demands to the adoption of advanced
technologies, regulatory changes, and sustainability initiatives.
KEY MEGATRENDS IMPACTING VIETNAM'S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY
FIGURE 19
Proactive buyers
Digitalization and
industry 4.0
Skilled labor
Sustainability and
circular fashion
Textile innovation and
advanced materials
Geopolitical
trade shifts
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 31
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.1 Sustainability and Circular Fashion
Brands and end-users are increasingly concerned about environmental, social, and governance
(ESG), driving regulatory changes to align with these demands. Due to the significant impact of
the apparel industry on the environment, contributing to 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions
as well as increasing landfill and pollution (McKinsey & Company, 2023), sustainability concerns
continue to be the focus of the sector. In 2018, stakeholders in the garment sector committed to
climate action through the UNFCCC Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action. Signatories
pledged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2030 (from a 2015 baseline) and achieve
net-zero emissions by 2050. Achieving this reduction requires system-level changes in the
production and consumption of textiles and garments regardless of location. As one of the major
exporters of textile and garment products, going green is an inevitable trend for Vietnam.
Vietnamese textile and garment enterprises are required to develop environmentally friendly
products in line with sustainability trends and meet the strict requirements of markets such as the
EU, the USA, and Japan. A report by Boston Consulting Group indicates that over the next two to
four years, more than 35 new pieces of sustainability-linked regulation are expected to go into
effect around the world, targeting import restrictions, product design guidelines, labeling
requirements, and more (Jensen et al., 2023). Figure 20 provides a snapshot of some regulatory
frameworks related to sustainability.
3.1.1 Stringent Regulatory Framework on Sustainability
Vietnam participates in 16 Free Trade Agreements (FTAs), which require certified origins,
sustainable production, and transparent production information for tax relief on exports. To
leverage FTAs, Vietnamese businesses must innovate across their operations to remain competitive.
Major importing countries are setting requirements for social responsibility, environmentally
friendly production, and circular production with the lowest energy and natural resource
consumption. For example, the EU’s target for full circularity by 2030 intensifies regulatory
pressure on the industry, compelling apparel manufacturers to address issues across circularity,
traceability, and decarbonization (McKinsey & Company, 2023). Future strategies must focus on
complying with stricter origin identification requirements and preparing for potential future taxes
like the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) and the EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment
Mechanism (CBAM).
The introduction of the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) by the EU marks a
significant shift in global climate policy, with notable implications for the fashion and textile
industry. Designed to level the playing field between EU producers and their international
counterparts, CBAM imposes a carbon price on imports from outside the EU. This approach aims
to prevent “carbon leakage,” where companies might relocate production to countries with less
stringent emissions regulations. By imposing these costs, CBAM encourages cleaner production
processes and promotes the adoption of more sustainable practices on a global scale.
32 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
A SNAPSHOT OF SOME SUSTAINABILITY REGULATIONS IN KEY IMPORTING MARKETS AS OF
05/07/2024
Source: https://climate-laws.org/
Note: * provisional agreement; ** proposed
FIGURE 20
EU
US
Japan
Korea
• Carbon Border Adjustment
Mechanism (CBAM)
• Waste Framework
Directive  (WFD)
• Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive (CSRD)
• Corporate Sustainability
Due Diligence Directive
(CSDDD)
• Ecodesign for Sustainable
Products Regulation
(ESPR)
• Digital Product Passport
(DPP)*
• EU Green Claim
Directive**
• California’s
Climate Corporate
Data
Accountability Act
(SB 253)
• California’s
Greenhouse
Gases: Climate-
Related Financial
Risk Bill (SB 261)
• Uyghur Forced
Labor Prevention
Act
• New York Fashion
Act**
• The FABRIC Act**
• Renewable
Energy Act
• Low Carbon City
Promotion Act
(Eco-city Law)
(Law No. 84 of
2014)
• Climate Change
Adaptation Act
• Framework Act
on Carbon
Neutrality and
Green Growth
for Coping with
Climate Crisis
• Guidelines for
Environmental
Labelling and
Advertising
For the fashion and textile industry, renowned for its substantial carbon emissions and environmental
impact, the introduction of the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) represents both a
challenge and an opportunity. Non-EU manufacturers may face higher costs due to the carbon
price, which could lead to increased consumer prices or reduced profit margins. This financial
pressure is likely to encourage the industry to adopt more carbon-efficient production methods.
CBAM also acts as a catalyst for the integration of sustainable technologies and practices,
prompting brands to invest in energy-efficient production methods and circular economy models
to alleviate the financial impact. Additionally, CBAM will require greater transparency and
accountability within supply chains. Companies must gain a clearer understanding of their supply
chain emissions, fostering more responsible and sustainable practices.
In response to similar regulatory frameworks, such as the ROK’s “Framework Act on Carbon
Neutrality and Green Growth for Coping with Climate Crisis,” manufacturers are expected to
obtain certifications like ISO 14067 for Product Carbon Footprint Verification, ISO 14001 for
Environmental Management Systems, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and ISO 26000. In
Vietnam, about 50% of textile enterprises have adopted green production methods, and
approximately 80% have invested in rooftop solar power (Quynh Trang, 2023). NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 33
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
The Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSDDD) mandates large EU companies
(over EUR150 million in global turnover and 500+ employees) and large non-EU companies (with
EU-wide revenue over EUR300 million) to conduct environmental and human rights due diligence
across their operations, subsidiaries, and value chains starting in 2027. The scope of CSDDD will
expand in future years, placing a significant compliance burden on companies with extensive
international value chains (Brennan, Gonzalez, Puzniak-Holford, Kilsby, & Subramoni, 2024).
In Vietnam, the Prime Minister issued Decision No. 1643/QD-TTg, approving the “Vietnam Textile
and Garment Industry Development Strategy to 2030, Vision to 2035.” This strategy envisions the
industry evolving sustainably within a circular economy model by 2035. It focuses on resource
efficiency, waste reduction, and improved environmental and social performance. The strategy sets
ambitious targets for reducing the industry’s environmental impact by 2030, including a 15%
reduction in energy consumption and a 20% reduction in water use by 2023, contributing to long-
term sustainability (Viet Nam News, 2022).
3.1.2 Buyer Expectations and Standards about Sustainability
Stringent regulations and growing consumer awareness of environmental concerns are driving
stricter requirements from buyers, particularly those representing major brands and international
chains. These buyers are restructuring their global supply chains to meet rigorous sustainability
targets, which emphasize improved environmental performance, the use of recycled and organic
materials, reduced energy consumption, and the conservation of non-renewable resources like
water and fossil fuels (WWF Vietnam, 2022). More than 85% of leading brands have publicly
declared decarbonization targets for their supply chains (Jensen, et al., 2023). Figure 21 provides
a snapshot of some popular sustainability standards and tools.
Net Zero Carbon Emissions: Achieving net zero carbon emissions is a crucial goal for the
industry, necessitating a focus on sustainable manufacturing and supply chain practices. Companies
are working towards reducing their carbon footprint by adopting energy-efficient technologies and
processes, and transitioning to renewable energy sources. This commitment extends to minimizing
greenhouse gas emissions across all stages of production and distribution. A key initiative in this
shift is the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). The SBTi provides a framework for companies
to set and achieve science-based emissions reduction targets. For example, Levi’s has had its net-
zero emissions target for 2050 approved by the SBTi. The company has updated its near-term goals
to a 42% reduction in its Scope 3 emissions by 2030, based on a new baseline year of 2022
(Ecotextile, 2024). Similarly, Nike is advancing its sustainability agenda by promoting renewable
energy use among its suppliers. The company’s approach includes supporting the installation of
solar photovoltaic systems on factory rooftops, advocating for policies that enable direct renewable
energy sourcing from local utilities, and expanding its biomass renewable energy program with a
focus on material manufacturers. In FY23, renewable energy use by suppliers increased by 50%,
with renewables accounting for a fifth of energy sourced (Derrick, 2024). Nike is also organizing
supplier working groups to accelerate the adoption of renewable energy across multiple countries.
34 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Manufacturing environment: There are increasing requirements about manufacturing practices
including factories’ energy and environmental standards. For example, LEED standard is an
international benchmark for high-performance green buildings, offering benefits such as reduced
energy and water consumption, lower operating costs, and improved market access through
enhanced sustainability credentials. Pearl Global Vietnam achieved LEED O&M Gold certification
in April 2024, becoming the first garment factory in Vietnam to receive this certification (Bureau
Veritas, 2024). Bureau Veritas conducted a feasibility study at the factory to evaluate its energy and
water consumption, indoor air quality, waste management practices, and other sustainability
criteria. In addition, the Higg Facility Environmental Module (FEM) 4.0 launched in 2023 is a
comprehensive assessment tool that requires all subcontractors and factories to self-evaluate and
verify their environmental performance (Cascale, 2023). This emphasizes more rigorous reporting
and accountability, driving further improvements in environmental practices within the industry.
Sustainable Product Certification: For apparel exports, there is a growing preference for products
with certifications for recycled content, organic materials, and adherence to Restricted Substances
Lists (RSLs). Compliance with Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) is also
increasingly important. These certifications are becoming essential for gaining market access and
meeting consumer expectations for sustainable products (Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2022).
Energy and Waste Management: There is a strong push to eliminate the use of coal and fossil
fuels in factory operations (Leal Filho et al., 2024). Instead, companies are investing in solar
energy installations and adopting environmentally friendly practices such as reducing greenhouse
gas emissions and using eco-friendly air conditioning systems. Waste management strategies are
evolving to prioritize recycling, reuse, and reduction of landfill and incineration (McKinsey &
Company, 2022). By adopting these practices, the industry aims to minimize its environmental
footprint and enhance sustainability.
Social Responsibility: Social responsibility remains a vital aspect of sustainability, emphasizing
gender equality, worker welfare, and improved working conditions (Balchin, 2023). Key
components include ensuring safe, healthy work environments, fair wages, and respect for labor
rights. Labor issues persist in Vietnam, with Better Work Vietnam (2023) reporting that one in four
factories were non-compliant in areas like occupational safety and health. Compliance with social
responsibility standards such as Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP), Business
Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), and Social &
Labor Convergence Program (SLCP), and Better Work is essential for fostering ethical practices
and upholding labor rights throughout the supply chain.
In summary, the fashion industry’s increasing emphasis on sustainability encompasses a multi-
faceted approach involving material choices, environmental management, product certification,
energy and waste practices, and social responsibility. These efforts are driving the industry towards
more sustainable practices and contributing to its growth and evolution in a way that aligns with
global sustainability goals. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 35
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
A SNAPSHOT OF SOME SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS
FIGURE 21
Environmental
Management Standards:
Climate and net zero
frameworks:
Energy Management
Standards:
Social Responsibility:
• ISO 14001: Environmental
Management Systems
ISO 14064-1: Greenhouse
Gas Inventories (Part 1)
ISO 14064-2: Greenhouse
Gas Projects (Part 2)
ISO 14067: Carbon
Footprint of Products
• ISO 14068: Climate
Neutrality
• HIGG: Higg Index
(Sustainable Apparel
Coalition)
• ISCC/GRS: International
Sustainability & Carbon
Certification / Global
Recycled Standard
• SBTi: Science Based
Targets initiative
• Climate Action 100+
(CA100+)
Taskforce on Climate
related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
• ISO 50001: Energy
Management Systems
• LEED/EDGE: Leadership in
Energy and Environmental
Design / Excellence in
Design for Greater
Efficiencies
• Renewable Energy
• ISO 46000: Guidance on
Social Responsibility
• WRAP: Worldwide
Responsible Accredited
Production
• BSCI: Business Social
Compliance Initiative
• SMETA: Sedex Members
Ethical Trade Audit
• SLCP: Social & Labor
Convergence Program
• Better Work
• SA 8000: Social
Accountability
• ISO 45001: Occupational
Health and Safety
• ISO 26000: Guidance on
Social Responsibility
• FSSC 24000: Food Safety
System Certification
36 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Opportunities and challenges
Opportunities
Challenges
Market access and profitability: Suppliers who
meet sustainability requirements will not only
become more competitive but also attract more
orders. By leveraging green standards and
certifications such as ISO 14001, eco-labels, and
product certifications, suppliers can enhance their
market access and appeal to environmentally
conscious consumers. These certifications can also
serve as powerful marketing tools, potentially
allowing suppliers to command higher prices for
their green products.
Participation in the carbon market: Companies
can offset their emissions, purchase carbon
credits, and meet emission reduction targets,
which helps manage costs associated with carbon
emissions. There are also opportunities to
generate carbon credits through sustainable
practices and investment in green projects.
Reducing costs: Brands and manufacturers that
have proactively adopted sustainable and circular
production practices are well-positioned to
benefit under mechanisms like CBAM. These
practices, which focus on reducing carbon
footprints and utilizing sustainable materials and
technologies, can lead to increased operational
efficiency and cost savings. Lower carbon
emissions reduce the risk of facing additional
legal costs or penalties. Additionally, such
practices can strengthen a company’s market
position, especially in environmentally conscious
markets like the EU. The focus on sustainability
can also lead to reduced production costs and
improved profitability.
Government Support: Companies engaged in
sustainable production may receive various forms
of government support, including financial
assistance and favorable policies. This support can
help offset the costs associated with transitioning
to more sustainable practices and enhance a
company’s ability to compete in the market. By
aligning with government policies that promote
sustainability, businesses can benefit from
incentives and assistance that bolster their
operational efficiency and market presence.
Complexity of the regulatory landscape: The
financial burden of transitioning to low-carbon
production methods and the administrative
complexities of compliance can be particularly
overwhelming for businesses, especially SMEs.
Approximately 87% of Vietnam’s textile and
garment companies are SMEs, each employing
fewer than 300 workers and with total assets
under USD2 million (GSO, 2022).
Financial strain and investment barriers: Shifting
towards sustainable and circular production
requires substantial capital investment, straining
companies especially SMEs. More than 80% of SMEs
lack the capital necessary for investing in green
production and achieving green certifications such
as LEED and LOTUS (Thanh Thuy, 2024). Currently,
less than 10% of factories meet LEED standards,
with most compliant facilities being foreign direct
investment (FDI) enterprises.
Supply chain and infrastructure challenges: The
textile industry in Vietnam is further challenged
by its heavy reliance on imported raw materials,
making it difficult for businesses to ensure quality
and sustainability throughout the supply chain.
Additionally, there is a shortage of large-scale
industrial zones specifically designed for garment
and textile production, including those with
wastewater treatment systems. The industry also
suffers from a lack of skilled human resources
necessary for implementing Industry 4.0
technologies.
Lack of strategic planning: Many SMEs lack
strategic planning, often prioritizing short-term
objectives over long-term sustainability goals.
This is partly influenced by current market
dynamics, where consumer awareness of
sustainable fashion remains limited, and
willingness to pay a premium for sustainable
products is still relatively low. In addition, SMEs
face intense competition from traditional
businesses that can produce goods at lower costs,
placing significant pressure on sustainable
enterprises to remain competitive while upholding
higher environmental and ethical standards.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 37
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.2 Geopolitical Trade Shifts
The textile trade’s reliance on smooth global transportation makes it vulnerable to conflicts and
unrest in key regions like Russia, the Middle East, and parts of the EU. USA leadership in creating
political stability is crucial for stabilizing trade. The Global Supply Chain Pressure Index (GSCPI)
(Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 2024) indicates a return to pre-pandemic levels, but companies
are not reverting to previous supply chains. The pandemic and geopolitical changes are driving
long-term shifts, such as reducing dependence on Asia and increasing automation. Companies are
regionalizing production and expanding their supplier networks to enhance resilience.
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN PRESSURE INDEX (GSCPI)
Source: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 2024
FIGURE 22
-2
-3
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
1998
2002
2006
2010
2014
2018
2022
3.2.1 Increasing Focus on Asia: Greater Competition and Unstable Political Environment
The fashion industry faces multiple crises, from logistical issues due to the Red Sea crisis, the
Israel-Palestine conflict, to increased energy prices from the Russia-Ukraine conflict and inflation
affecting consumer spending (Rabe & Wiggins, 2024). The fallout between Russia and the West
also has a disruptive impact on the energy sector which will affect other commodities as Western
sanctions on Russia take effect and Western Europe weans itself from its dependence on Russian
oil and gas. Russian trade will shift from Europe to other regions, particularly China and India. On
the other hand, geopolitical tensions between the USA and China have led firms to adopt nearshoring
and ‘China+1’ sourcing strategies, aiming to reduce reliance on China and diversify production
(EY, 2023). 38 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.2.2 Nearshoring
Manufacturing activities are moving closer to major consumer markets in the EU and the USA, a
trend known as ‘nearshoring’ (Monaghan, 2023). This shift aims to shorten supply chains and
reduce risks associated with long-distance production. However, a complete decoupling from
China is unlikely due to the continued reliance on Chinese fabrics and components, as well as the
significant Chinese consumer market.
3.2.3 ‘China+1’ Sourcing Strategy
Since the early 2010s, rising labor costs in China have driven the ‘China+1’ strategy, reducing
China’s share of global apparel exports from 43% in 2010 to 31% in 2019. This decline has been
exacerbated by the US-China trade war, which imposed tariffs up to 7.5% on Chinese textiles and
apparel, and the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act (UFLPA) (Maile & Staritz, 2024). Apparel
brands are diversifying their supply chains, with Vietnam and Bangladesh emerging as key
beneficiaries. However, China is still a large supplier due to the ongoing reliance of lead firms
particularly on fabric supply from China, as well as ancillary components such as trims, buttons,
and zippers.
3.2.4 Continued Influence of the Asia-Pacific Region
The Asia-Pacific textile market is projected to grow from USD391.20 billion in 2024 to USD443.72
billion by 2029, at a CAGR of 2.55% (Research and Markets, 2024). The Asia-Pacific region
remains a powerhouse in the global textile and apparel trade. As a global leader, the region holds a
60.7% market share, including 60.1% in apparel, 60.5% in home textiles, and 62% of raw textile
exports (Fibre2Fashion, 2024). This dominance highlights the region’s dynamic industry,
emphasizing the importance of intra-regional trade for risk management and market expansion.
China, Bangladesh, Vietnam, and India are key players in this market, driven by strong demand
and internal consumption (CICC Research, 2024).
3.2.5 Emerging Markets: Opportunities to Service Chinese Market
The reconfiguration of global supply chains due to rising labor costs in China and geopolitical
considerations is expected to cause significant changes to China’s role as a major supplier.
Companies have started diversifying their sourcing to other Asian countries to better manage
production risks and costs. This strategic shift helps mitigate the impacts of potential disruptions
and leverages the benefits of a more diversified supply chain. China is expected to lose its share of
trade partners’ imports in textiles, where it has been a concentrated supplier (Song, White, Birsha,
& Woetz, 2024). At the same time, this represents a significant export opportunity for Vietnam with
China. According to the Observatory of Economic Complexity (2024), China holds the highest
import potential for textiles, with a gap of USD1.3 billion. It is predicted that trade between the
USA and China will decrease by USD63 billion through 2031 (Gilbert, Lang, Mavropoulos, &
McAdoo, 2023).These trends will drive world trade growth with ASEAN countries, India, and
Mexico, as nearshoring and friend-shoring gain pace. Trade between ASEAN and China will
increase by an additional USD438 billion by 2031 (Gilbert, Lang, Mavropoulos, & McAdoo,
2023). This indicates substantial opportunities for Vietnamese businesses aiming to tap into the
Chinese market.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 39
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Opportunities and challenges
Opportunities
Challenges
China as a potential export market: China
remains the largest import market for textiles,
with a gap of USD1.3 billion. This represents a
significant export opportunity for Vietnamese
businesses aiming to tap into the Chinese market.
Emerging as a key beneficiary of “China +1”
strategy: As companies diversify their supply
chains away from China, Vietnam has emerged as
a key beneficiary alongside Bangladesh, further
solidifying Vietnam’s position as an alternative
sourcing destination.
Intra-regional trade expansion: The Asia-Pacific
region holds a dominant position in the global
textile and apparel segment, with Vietnam playing
a crucial role. Expanding intra-regional trade
within Asia can mitigate risks and explore new
market opportunities, enhancing Vietnam’s
position in the regional supply chain.
Geopolitical risks: The textile trade’s reliance on
smooth global transportation makes it vulnerable
to conflicts and unrest in key regions such as
Russia, the Middle East, and parts of the EU. These
geopolitical tensions can disrupt supply chains
and affect trade stability.
Increased Competition: The focus on Asia,
particularly with the ‘China+1’ strategy, means
that Vietnam faces greater competition from
other Asian countries like Bangladesh and India.
Companies diversifying their sourcing may spread
their orders across multiple countries, intensifying
competition.
Dependence on imported raw materials:
Vietnam’s textile industry remains heavily
dependent on imported raw materials,
particularly from China. This reliance makes it
vulnerable to disruptions in the supply chain
caused by geopolitical tensions.
3.3 Textile Innovation and Advanced Materials
3.3.1 Demand for Sustainable Materials
Global fiber production reached a record 124 million tons in 2023, up from 116 million tons in
2022, and is projected to climb to 160 million tons by 2030 if current practices persist (Textile
Exchange, 2024) (Figure 23). With this growth, there is a rising demand for sustainable materials.
The sustainable fabrics market is anticipated to grow significantly, from USD32.74 billion in 2024
to USD74.8 billion by 2032, reflecting a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12.50% during
this period (Market Research Future, 2024). Brands must focus on reducing carbon emissions and
prepare for upcoming regulations. A strong strategy for sourcing preferred raw materials is
essential, as it ensures access to sustainable supplies. This approach could yield significant financial
benefits; for example, a fashion brand with USD1 billion in annual revenue could see a potential
gain of around USD100 million over five years (Jensen, et al., 2023). However, prioritizing cost
cuts without considering the impact can disrupt the supply of key materials, leading to shortages
and regulatory challenges. BCG and Textile Exchange project a 133-million-ton gap in preferred
raw materials by 2030, with only 19% meeting preferred standards due to lack of scale (Boston
Consulting Group, 2023).
40 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
GLOBAL FIBER PRODUCTION (MILLION TONS)
Source: Textile Exchange, 2024
FIGURE 23
34
38
49
47
50
58
72
79
98
109
135
160
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
1975
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
The industry is moving towards replacing new virgin fossil-fuel-derived feedstocks with materials
that reduce carbon emissions, aiming to slow down the production of new fibers and raw materials.
Several initiatives have supported this transition. For example, the 2025 Sustainable Cotton
Challenge, with 159 signatories in 2023, encourages brands, retailers, suppliers, and manufacturers
to source 100% of their cotton from more sustainable sources by 2025. Similarly, the 2025 Recycled
Polyester Challenge, with 124 signatories in 2023, aims to increase the market share of recycled
polyester from 14% in 2019 to 45% by 2025 (Textile Exchange, 2024).
3.3.2 Eco-materials
Sourcing green materials helps reduce the textile industry’s dependence on harmful chemicals and
encourages responsible production practices. Certifications such as the Global Recycled Standard
(GRS) or Recycled Claim Standard (RCS) provide transparency and credibility for recycled
fabrics, ensuring they meet specific recycled content and production requirements. Several
Vietnamese companies are at the forefront of the sustainable textile movement, driving innovation
and creativity. For example, in addition to producing recycled clothing for its own market, Thanh
Cong Textile Garment - Investment - Trading JSC supplies recycled products for buyers in the
USA, the EU, and Japan (Tuoi Tre News, 2024). Greenyarn turns waste into wearable fabric by
combining recycled coffee grounds with plastic bottles, reducing landfill waste (Greenyarn, 2024).
Faslink promotes eco-friendly fibers like linen, hemp, coffee, mint, and bamboo, which use fewer
resources than traditional cotton (Viet Nam News, 2023). W.ELL Fabric follows a closed-loop
Lyocell system to produce bamboo fabric, by recycling up to 98% of NMMO chemicals and
significantly reducing wastewater (W.ELL Fabric, 2024).  These efforts highlight Vietnam’s
potential to reshape how fashion is created and consumed, positioning the country as a key supplier
of eco-friendly textiles. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 41
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.3.3 Innovations in Next-gen Textiles
Next-generation textiles represent a paradigm shift in the textile industry, incorporating the latest
advances in materials, technologies, and functionalities. These textiles aim to meet modern
demands for sustainability, advanced performance, smart capabilities, and versatility. They go
beyond traditional fabrics, integrating smart sensors, responsive materials, sustainable components,
and functional coatings. According to the Material Innovation Initiative (MII) (2024), investment
in next-gen materials increased by 10% in 2023, reflecting strong interest and potential in this
sector. In 2023, there were 144 companies dedicated to researching and developing next-gen
materials, up from 95 in 2021. MII projects the industry will reach USD2.2 billion by 2026
(Material Innovation Initiative, 2024).
42 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Opportunities and challenges
Opportunities
Challenges
Suppliers of eco-friendly textiles: Vietnamese
textile firms have the potential to position
themselves as leading suppliers of eco-friendly
textiles. With brands and retailers globally
prioritizing sustainable sourcing, Vietnam’s
innovative use of durable, recycled, natural, and
organic materials can attract significant
investment and create numerous job
opportunities. Companies like Thanh Cong Textile
and Garment, Greenyarn, Faslink, and W.ELL Fabric
are already demonstrating how waste can be
transformed into wearable fashion, and natural
fibers can be used sustainably. This innovative
approach not only enhances Vietnam’s reputation
but also opens new markets and strengthens its
competitive edge in the global textile industry.
Collaboration and partnership: Investing in
research and development to produce
environmentally friendly fashion products is a
significant opportunity for Vietnamese textile firms.
Collaborations like that between Hansae Group and
Hanosimex to produce recycled textiles (Hai Yen,
2022) highlight the importance of partnerships in
advancing sustainability. With the growing demand
for certifications like the Global Recycled Standard
(GRS) or Recycled Claim Standard (RCS), Vietnamese
firms can gain credibility and market access by
ensuring their products meet specific recycled
content and production requirements.
Next-generation textiles (NGTs): The
development and adoption of next-generation
textiles represent a paradigm shift in the industry.
Vietnamese firms can capitalize on the latest
advances in materials, technologies, and
functionalities to meet modern demands for
sustainability, advanced performance, smart
capabilities, and versatility. The increasing
investment in next-gen materials, despite global
economic challenges, underscores the potential
for growth in this sector (Material Innovation
Initiative, 2024). With 144 companies globally
dedicated to researching and developing next-
gen materials by 2023, Vietnamese firms have the
opportunity to collaborate, innovate, and lead in
this space, offering high-performance, animal-
free, and environmentally friendly materials.
Securing a sustainable supply chain: A
significant challenge for Vietnamese textile firms
is the need to secure a robust supply of
sustainable raw materials. According to the
Ministry of Industry and Trade, Vietnam is
currently only able to actively produce about
30-40% of its domestic raw material needs.
Specifically, Vietnam can meet just 0.2% of its
cotton demand and 30% of its fiber demand, with
the remainder needing to be imported from
countries such as the USA, China, and the ROC
(Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association, 2022).
As brands drive carbon reduction and prepare for
upcoming regulations, they need a reliable supply
of preferred materials. Without a well-planned
strategy, firms may face a materials gap and an
inability to adapt to new regulatory landscapes.
Scalability of Innovations: While next-generation
textiles offer exciting possibilities, the scalability
of these innovations remains a challenge. The
industry is accustomed to rapid sourcing, but new
materials may take years to commercialize.
Ensuring that innovations are scalable, have
robust supply chain tracking systems,
scientifically-backed data, and potential for
circularity at the end of life is crucial. Without
proper investment and support, the demand-and-
supply gap for sustainable materials could widen,
significantly impacting the industry’s ability to
meet climate targets and sustainable goals.
Lack of resources: The majority of enterprises in
the industry are SMEs with limited capital and
human resources, resulting in insufficient
investment in research and technology. Vietnam’s
strong reliance on other markets such as China for
textile materials represents a significant weakness
as the global textile industry evolves and requires
continuous innovation and adaptation in next-
gen materials.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 43
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.4 Textile 4.0 – Adoption of Industry 4.0 Principles
Vietnam’s textile industry is at a critical juncture, struggling with outdated technology compared
to regional and global competitors. Only 30% of businesses, including foreign-invested enterprises
and large domestic companies, have adopted automation at various stages of production, with less
than 5% planning to implement connected automation technology (Phuong Thao, 2021). The
implementation of Industry 4.0 is set to revolutionize Vietnam’s textile and garment industry by
enhancing productivity and profitability significantly. Industry 4.0 is characterized by increasing
automation and the employment of smart machines and smart factories; informed data helps to
make better decisions and produce goods more efficiently and productively across the value chain
(IBM, 2024) (Figure 24). According to Majumdar, Garg, and Jain (2021), the adoption of these
advanced technologies can increase manufacturing productivity by up to 55% and profit margins
by as much as 15%. KEY TECHNOLOGIES IN INDUSTRY 4.0
Source: McKinsey & Company, 2022
FIGURE 24
E.g. digitalization,
big data, sensors,
cyber-physical system
(CPS)
E.g. additive
manufacturing such as
3-D printing, 3D knitting
E.g. advanced analytics,
machine learning,AI
E.g. VR/AR, robotics and automation
Connectivity,
data, and
computational
power
Analytics and
intelligence
Advanced
engineering
Human–machine
interaction
3.4.1 Shift from Labor-intensive to Value-added Production
Vietnam’s textile and garment industry is at a critical juncture, facing intense competition as cheap
labor is no longer an advantage compared to countries such as Bangladesh. Without a strategic
transformation and substantial investment in modern technologies, the industry risks stagnation
and losing its competitive edge. Therefore, despite its labor-intensive nature, the Vietnamese textile
and garment sector is gradually transitioning towards a value-added production model by adopting
Industry 4.0 technologies. Innovations such as artificial intelligence (AI), interactive robotics,
smart sensors, and 3D printing are increasingly being integrated into manufacturing processes.
These technologies are expected to boost productivity by 21% to 46% (ADB, 2021), positioning 44 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
the industry for future growth. Research by the Vietnam National Textile and Garment Group
highlights that a fiber factory utilizing Industry 4.0 models can reduce labor by up to 70% and cut
energy usage by up to 25% (WWF, 2022). Similarly, a textile dyeing factory operating under the
4.0 model can achieve a 30% reduction in labor, 50% less water usage, and 50% lower energy
consumption. Over the past decade, labor productivity per capita in Vietnam’s textile industry has
nearly quadrupled, and technological advancements have significantly improved the efficiency of
spinning and weaving processes. For instance, the number of employees needed for 10,000 spindles
has decreased from over 110 to just 25-30, reflecting a fourfold increase in labor productivity
(WWF, 2022). The shift from relying on human skill to leveraging data-driven automation has also
enhanced the accuracy and stability of the dyeing process, with first-time accurate dyeing rates
improving from 70-80% to 95-98% in many factories (WWF, 2022). In garment production,
automation is being increasingly utilized for complex and repetitive tasks, such as fabric spreading,
cutting, and adding pockets, reducing labor needs and material waste.
3.4.2 Automation Technology Adoption
One of the primary drivers of technological advancement in Vietnam’s textile and garment industry
is the upgrade of industrial facilities to improve energy efficiency and operational functions.
Globally, textile manufacturing facilities are investing in automation solutions that reduce costs
and maintain consistent quality throughout the year. These upgrades are crucial for staying
competitive, as they help reduce the workforce required for various tasks, thereby lowering
operational costs (Technavio, 2023). The global market for automation in the textile industry is
experiencing substantial growth, with projections estimating an increase of USD775.92 million by
2028, at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 3.75% (Technavio, 2023). This growth is
driven by the widespread recognition of automation’s benefits, including enhanced process
efficiency, reduced labor costs, and improved product quality. Robotics and sensors play a pivotal
role in automating processes such as knitting, yarn tension management, and other critical
production stages. The use of autolevellers and draw frames has been particularly effective in
maintaining consistent yarn tension, improving overall productivity, and ensuring high-quality
output (Technavio, 2023). AI, robotics, and smart sensors have seen high levels of adoption within
the industry, particularly in regions with advanced manufacturing capabilities. However, other
technologies like Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) and human-robot interaction are still in the early
stages of adoption among apparel firms in Vietnam (Van Ta, Jin, & Cho, 2024).
3.4.3 Data Analytics for Optimal Decision-making
Embedded sensors and interconnected machinery produce vast amounts of big data for
manufacturing companies. The smart factory’s network architecture relies on interconnectivity.
Real-time data collected from sensors, devices, and machines on the factory floor can be
immediately consumed and utilized by other factory assets and shared across the enterprise
software stack, including enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other business management
software (IBM, 2024). Data analytics enable manufacturers to investigate historical trends, identify
patterns, and make better decisions. Smart factories can also leverage data from other parts of the
organization and their extended ecosystem of suppliers and distributors to create deeper insights.
By analyzing data from human resources, sales, or warehousing, manufacturers can make informed
production decisions based on sales margins and personnel needs. This comprehensive digital
representation of operations is known as a “digital twin.” A study by McKinsey & Company (Fox,
Goldrick, & Whittington, 2018) reveals that apparel companies leveraging advanced analytics can
realize significant benefits, including a 15-20% reduction in inventory costs, a 10-15% increase in
revenue, and a 5-10% improvement in gross margin.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 45
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.4.4 Custom Manufacturing
Smart factories are capable of producing customized goods that meet individual customer needs
more cost-effectively. In many industry segments, manufacturers aim to achieve a “lot size of one”
in an economical way. By using advanced simulation software, new materials, and technologies
like 3D printing, manufacturers can easily create small batches of specialized items for specific
customers (IBM, 2024). While the first industrial revolution focused on mass production, Industry
4.0 is about mass customization, an important driver of competitive advantages (Shi et al., 2023)
3.4.5 Supply Chain Integration
Industrial operations depend on a transparent, lean, and efficient supply chain, which must be
integrated with production operations as part of a robust Industry 4.0 strategy (Saha et al., 2023).
This integration transforms how manufacturers source raw materials and deliver finished products.
Sharing production data with suppliers enables better delivery scheduling, and predictive shipping
allows companies to meet consumer demand efficiently. This also enables firms to engage in global
value chains via collaborative efforts with supply chain partners (Deepthi, & Bansal, 2024).
46 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Opportunities
Challenges
Enhanced productivity and efficiency: The
adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies offers a
significant opportunity to enhance productivity
and operational efficiency within Vietnam’s textile
and garment industry. Automation, AI, robotics,
and smart sensors can streamline production
processes, reduce manual labor, and increase
output quality. This shift from labor-intensive
methods to value-added production systems can
lead to productivity gains of 21% to 46% (ADB,
2021).
Global competitiveness: By adopting Industry 4.0
technologies, Vietnam can position itself as a
more competitive player in the global textile and
apparel market. By integrating advanced
manufacturing technologies, Vietnamese firms
can meet the increasing demands for high-quality
products and quicker turnaround times, making
the country an even more attractive destination
for foreign direct investment.
Sustainability and energy efficiency: The push
towards automation and digitalization also aligns
with global trends in sustainability. Upgrading
industrial facilities to be more energy-efficient
and adopting eco-friendly technologies can help
Vietnamese firms reduce their environmental
footprint. This focus on sustainability can enhance
the industry’s appeal to environmentally
conscious consumers and global brands.
Expansion of digital platforms: The growth of
e-commerce and the use of digital platforms
present significant opportunities for Vietnamese
textile and garment companies. By leveraging
online sales channels, businesses can reach a
broader global audience, reduce dependency on
traditional retail channels, and respond more
swiftly to market changes. The ability to engage
directly with consumers through digital platforms
also opens up new revenue streams and
marketing opportunities.
Skilled workforce development: Vietnam’s young
and increasingly skilled workforce is well-
positioned to take advantage of Industry 4.0
technologies. As more workers are trained in
advanced manufacturing techniques and digital
tools, the industry can expect a rise in innovation,
improved production processes, and a more
resilient labor force.
Infrastructure limitations in SMEs: A significant
challenge is the lack of automation-compatible
infrastructure, particularly among SMEs.
Implementing Industry 4.0 technologies often
requires substantial investments in new
machinery, facility upgrades, and the
establishment of centralized control systems. For
many SMEs, these costs are prohibitive, and the
downtime associated with transitioning to
automated systems can disrupt production and
affect profitability.
High initial investment costs: The integration of
advanced technologies such as AI, robotics, and
smart sensors requires considerable upfront
investment. For many companies, especially
smaller ones, these costs can be a significant
barrier. Additionally, the return on investment
might not be immediate, making it challenging
for businesses with limited financial resources to
justify the expenditure.
Workforce displacement and skill gaps: The shift
towards automation and digitalization may lead
to workforce displacement, as jobs traditionally
performed by manual labor are increasingly
automated. This creates a challenge in terms of
retraining and upskilling the existing workforce to
operate and manage new technologies. The skill
gap in managing sophisticated machinery and
digital systems could hinder the industry’s ability
to fully capitalize on Industry 4.0 advancements.
Reliance on low-cost labor: Vietnam’s textile and
garment industry has traditionally relied on
low-cost labor as a competitive advantage. The
transition to automated processes could disrupt
this model, particularly for SMEs that continue to
find manual labor more economical. The
challenge lies in balancing the benefits of
automation with the economic realities of
low-cost labor in developing regions.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 47
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.5 Proactive Buyers
3.5.1 Personalization
The textile industry is rapidly embracing personalization, with the market for customized apparel
projected to reach USD38.3 billion by 2026, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% (Market Research
Future). Social media platforms like Instagram and Pinterest have become key drivers of this trend,
flooded with consumer-generated content showcasing personalized clothing and accessories.
Powered by 4IR technologies and innovative business models, the industry is focusing on
personalized production. Unlike the past eras—marked by mechanization, mass production, and
digitalization—the current revolution prioritizes hyper-personalization, catering to individual
preferences rather than the mass-produced items made for the average consumer (Jin & Shin,
2021). This shift addresses the significant issue of unmatched demand and oversupply that plagued
previous industrial eras, leading to excess inventory and environmental harm.
Now, consumers seek fashion products that reflect their unique style and fit, and companies like
Stitch Fix are meeting this demand by utilizing AI and big data to offer personalized styling
services (Marr, 2024). With 4IR technologies, personalization can significantly reduce unsold
inventory, contributing to environmental sustainability while enhancing consumer satisfaction.
Hyper-personalization, which encompasses both customization and personalization, offers tailored
solutions that satisfy individual customer needs (Deloitte, 2024). This approach not only improves
the consumer experience but also enhances operational efficiency for manufacturers and retailers.
3.5.2 Value Co-Creation with Buyers
The integration of 3D design technology into the textile industry is revolutionizing how businesses
interact with buyers and create value. This advanced technology allows companies to nearly
eliminate traditional sample-making processes, enabling fully digital fashion shows—from initial
design to final product—using virtual models. What once took 30 to 50 weeks, from sketching a
design to obtaining final customer approval, can now be completed in just 5 to 9 weeks (Vietnam
Textile & Apparel Association, 2024). Digital tools allow for immediate adjustments, significantly
reducing turnaround times and fostering closer collaboration between manufacturers and buyers.
This transformation not only streamlines production but also deepens the relationships between
businesses and their buyers. By taking a more active role in the value chain, companies can co-
create value, ensuring that final products closely match buyer expectations and market demands.
This collaborative approach, underpinned by cutting-edge technology, is essential for maintaining
competitiveness in the rapidly evolving global textile market.
Moreover, this shift accelerates supply chain processes and helps reposition the industry towards
greater value-added participation, such as Free On Board (FOB), Original Design Manufacturing
(ODM), or Owning Brand Manufacturing (OBM) methods. Many factories are currently
transitioning from Original Equipment Manufacturing (OEM)/Contract Manufacturing (CM)
production to ODM/FOB, and several businesses in Vietnam have already successfully made this
transition (Hoang Anh, 2024). This evolution necessitates increased cooperation and collaboration
between enterprises, across different stages of the supply chain, and among related sectors such as
textiles, dyeing, footwear, and accessories.
48 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Opportunities and challenges
Opportunities
Challenges
Growing Market Demand: The market for
customized apparel is projected to reach USD2.17
billion at a CAGR of 8.04% between 2023 and
2028 (Technavio, 2024), reflecting a strong
consumer preference for personalized fashion.
This trend offers significant growth potential for
companies that can effectively tap into this
market.
Increased efficiency and effectiveness: By
eliminating traditional sample-making processes
and using digital models, companies can
minimize unsold inventory and waste, supporting
more sustainable production practices. This
reduces excess inventory and minimizes
environmental impact while enhancing consumer
satisfaction. The adoption of 3D design
technology enables faster turnaround times,
reducing the design-to-approval process. This
speed enhances responsiveness to market trends
and buyer needs.
Improved relationships with buyers: The
integration of 4IR technologies, such as AI and big
data, facilitates hyper-personalization, allowing
companies to offer products that cater to
individual preferences. Personalization improves
the consumer experience by providing tailored
solutions that reflect individual styles and
preferences. Digital tools foster closer
collaboration between manufacturers and buyers,
allowing for real-time feedback and adjustments.
This leads to products that better match buyer
expectations and strengthens business
relationships. This can lead to higher customer
loyalty and satisfaction.
Engagement with global value chain: Improved
collaboration and integration across the supply
chain enhance overall efficiency and performance,
benefiting from closer cooperation between
different stages of production and related sectors.
There is a potential to transition towards value-
added activities such as FOB, ODM, and OBM,
allowing companies to capture more value and
improve their market position, leading to higher
profitability and better alignment with market
demands.
Complexity of implementation: Integrating
advanced technologies for personalization and
digital tools requires substantial investment and
expertise. Personalized production and advanced
technologies can lead to higher costs compared
to traditional mass production. Balancing these
costs with competitive pricing poses a challenge.
Companies may face challenges in effectively
developing and implementing these systems.
Scalability issues: Scaling personalized
production to handle large volumes while
maintaining quality can be difficult. Companies
need to manage production scale without
compromising on customization.
Data management: Managing, analyzing, and
sharing data among various parties using digital
tools can be complex. Companies need robust
data management and security practices to
ensure accurate decision-making and protect
sensitive information.
Market dynamics: The fast-paced nature of the
fashion industry means companies must remain
agile and responsive to changing trends and
buyer preferences, which can be challenging in a
dynamic market environment. As personalization
becomes more common, consumer expectations
rise, requiring continuous innovation and
adaptation to meet evolving demands, which can
be resource-intensive.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 49
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.6 Skilled Labor
3.6.1 Skill Requirements
Despite Vietnam’s large labor force, the textile and garment industry faces a critical shortage of
skilled workers. As advanced technology reshapes the industry and market demands evolve,
substantial investment in training and human resource development has become essential. Industry
experts suggest that while the overall number of workers required may remain stable or even
decrease due to technological advancements, the demand for highly skilled labor is expected to rise
significantly. The future will see a growing need for technical skills—such as digital literacy, IT,
programming, technology design, engineering, and equipment maintenance. Additionally, there
will be increasing demand for advanced cognitive skills like project management and creativity,
alongside social and emotional skills such as entrepreneurship and initiative-taking. In contrast,
physical and manual labor skills (e.g., material handling) and basic cognitive skills (e.g., basic
literacy, numeracy, and communication) are anticipated to decline by 2030 (Figure 25). This trend
reflects the broader global shift towards Industry 4.0, which emphasizes automation and advanced
technologies, highlighting the necessity for upskilling and re-skilling to maintain competitiveness.
ACCELERATION OF SKILL SHIFTS (% OF TIME)
Source: McKinsey Global Institute, 2018
FIGURE 25
Physical and manual skills
Basic cognitive skills
Social and emotional skills
Higher cognitive skills
Technological skills
33
31
26
20
18
15
21
22
22
17
18
21
9
11
16
0
20
40
60
80
100
%
2002
2016
2030
50 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
3.6.1.1 Upskilling
As Industry 4.0 continues to shape the manufacturing landscape, companies will face more than
just a shortage of skilled employees. The shift towards automation and digitalization will bring
additional challenges related to the skill development of the existing workforce (McKinsey Global
Institute, 2018). One challenge is the need for upskilling, where workers accustomed to manual
tasks will be required to learn how to operate advanced machinery, such as robots. In the textile
and garment industry, digital, information and communication technology (ICT) skills, along with
creative thinking and design capabilities, will become increasingly critical (Asia Development
Bank, 2023). This transition demands significant training efforts to ensure that workers can
effectively handle new tools and technologies.
3.6.1.2 Re-skilling
Another major challenge is re-skilling. Industry 4.0 is expected to lead to some degree of job
displacement, with certain roles becoming obsolete while new ones emerge. Companies will need
to invest in re-skilling programs to prepare their labor force for these changes, ensuring that
employees can transition smoothly into new roles created by technological advancements (Asia
Development Bank, 2021). Additionally, the rapid pace of technological change will require
continuous learning strategies, as technologies may become obsolete at an accelerated rate.
Companies will need to implement ongoing professional development to help their workforce
adapt to these frequent changes.
3.6.1.3 Employee Mindset
There is a need for a fundamental shift in the mindset of the labor force. Given the magnitude of
the changes that Industry 4.0 will bring, employees may resist or oppose the implementation of
new technologies. Many organizations encounter significant resistance when implementing new
technologies due to employees’ fears of job displacement and a greater level of surveillance over
their work, discomfort with digital tools, and a preference for established processes (Cugno,
Castagnoli, & Büchi, 2021). This resistance is often described as organizational inertia, which
hinders the adoption of innovative practices necessary for advanced manufacturing processes
(Sharma et al., 2023). Companies must therefore plan for and encourage a change in mindset,
fostering an environment that embraces innovation and facilitates a smooth transition to advanced
manufacturing processes.
3.6.2 Competing Industries for Talent Recruitment and Retention
In the next five to 10 years, Vietnam’s advantage of low labor costs in the garment sector is
expected to diminish as automation becomes more widespread. As a result, the industry will
increasingly rely on smart, well-educated local talent capable of adapting production lines to
integrate the latest technological solutions.
3.6.2.1 Relationships with Employees
The labor market in Vietnam, particularly in the garment industry, is highly competitive. Before
the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of garment enterprises was rapidly increasing, leading to
consistently high demand for labor. Despite efforts to offer competitive wages, the industry has
struggled with an unstable workforce. High turnover rates have been a persistent issue, with
workers frequently changing jobs in pursuit of better pay or leaving for personal reasons without
claiming employer-provided social benefits. In 2018, turnover rates were reported to be 15-20%
for large companies, 20-30% for small companies, and 30-40% for FDI enterprises (Vietnam
Investment Review, 2018). This high turnover, coupled with labor shortages, has created challenges NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 51
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
for factory owners, who must maintain good relations with their workers or risk financial losses
due to unfilled or under-filled orders. In addition, the vast majority of workers in garment
enterprises are migrant workers from rural areas of Vietnam, where factory jobs offer significantly
higher wages compared to agricultural work. This wage differential often compels workers to
endure challenging working conditions and overlook labor law violations. To address these issues,
the garment industry must focus on maintaining strong relationships with its workforce and invest
in training and retention strategies to remain competitive in an increasingly dynamic labor market.
3.6.2.2 Increasing Competition from Other Industries
In addition to the competitive nature of the labor market, the garment industry faces competition
from other rapidly growing sectors such as construction, furniture, and electronics (Figure 26)
(Institute of Workers and Trade Unions, 2021). The textile industry is often viewed as less attractive
because it is perceived as demanding and labor-intensive. Many workers see it as requiring
repetitive tasks with limited career advancement opportunities. This perception is compounded by
concerns over working conditions, which can include exposure to chemicals and a physically
demanding environment. The nature of the work in textile manufacturing, which often involves
long hours and manual labor, contrasts sharply with the more advanced and cleaner environments
associated with high-tech industries (International Labour Organization, 2022).
GARMENT WORKERS’ AVERAGE WAGE COMPARED TO OTHER INDUSTRIES’ WORKERS’ WAGES (VND)
Source: Institute of Workers and Trade Unions, 2021
FIGURE 26
0
1,000,000
2,000,000
3,000,000
4,000,000
5,000,000
6,000,000
7,000,000
Wage
Overtime allowance
Manufacture
Construction,
transportation
Agriculture-
forestry-
seafood
processing
Footwear
Trading
services
Electronics
Garment
Average
52 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
High-tech sectors, such as electronics, offer more appealing work environments and career
prospects. These industries are associated with higher wages, cleaner and safer workplaces, and
opportunities for professional growth and development. The advanced nature of technology in
these fields, combined with the higher skill requirements, makes them more attractive to potential
employees. Electronics and other tech industries also typically offer more appealing benefits and a
greater emphasis on innovation, which can be more motivating for prospective workers.
Furthermore, the textile industry’s reliance on chemicals and the labor-intensive nature of its
processes contribute to its less favorable image. The potential health risks associated with chemical
exposure and the physically demanding tasks involved can deter individuals from pursuing careers
in this sector. In contrast, industries like electronics are often perceived as offering safer working
conditions and a more modern, technologically advanced work environment.
3.6.3 The Importance of Education and Training
Establishing comprehensive vocational training programs and fostering collaboration with
universities and research institutes are critical measures to ensure the supply of skilled labor that
meets the industry’s increasingly sophisticated requirements (Asia Development Bank, 2023). To
succeed in this new era, workers will need a broad range of qualifications and skills. Knowledge in
ICT, basic information technology, and the ability to use and interact with smart machines will be
essential. Understanding machine-to-machine communication, IT security, and data protection will
also be critical. Additionally, workers will need to be skilled in data literacy, including the ability
to process and analyze data, interpret visual data outputs, and make informed decisions based on
this information. A strong foundation in technical know-how, particularly in manufacturing
processes and machine maintenance, will be crucial, along with personal skills such as adaptability,
decision-making, teamwork, and communication. Importantly, a mindset geared towards lifelong
learning will be essential for success in the rapidly evolving landscape of Industry 4.0 (Cugno,
Castagnoli, & Büchi, 2021).
Overall, to remain competitive in this challenging labor market, the textile industry needs to
address these perceptions by improving working conditions, investing in cleaner technologies, and
enhancing career development opportunities. By making the sector more attractive to potential
employees and emphasizing advancements such as automation and technology integration, the
industry can better compete with high-tech sectors for skilled talent.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 53
MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Opportunities and challenges
Opportunities
Challenges
Improvement of labor productivity: The
integration of Industry 4.0 technologies such as
automation and digital tools presents
opportunities to enhance labor productivity and
improve the overall quality of output.
Enhanced skill development: The evolving
demands of the market present a chance to
upskill and re-skill the workforce. Training
programs focused on advanced manufacturing
techniques can help workers transition from
manual tasks to operating sophisticated
machinery, ensuring that the labor force remains
relevant and competitive. This can set Vietnam
apart from other labor-intensive countries and
create a strong competitive advantage.
Improved labor relations: By investing in training,
retention strategies, and better working
conditions, the industry has the potential to
reduce high turnover rates and foster more stable
and productive relationships with workers, which
is crucial in maintaining competitiveness.
Strategic collaborations: Forming alliances with
universities, research institutes, and international
brands can drive innovation, enhance research
and development capabilities, and ensure a
steady supply of skilled labor.
Skilled labor shortage: The textile industry faces
a significant shortage of skilled workers,
exacerbated by the need for upskilling and
re-skilling to keep pace with technological
advancements. This requires substantial
investment in training and development
programs.
High turnover rates: The industry struggles with
high employee turnover, which disrupts
production and increases recruitment and
training costs. This issue is compounded by the
competitive nature of the labor market and the
need to maintain good relations with workers.
Competition: The textile industry is often
perceived as labor-intensive and less appealing
compared to high-tech sectors. The repetitive
nature of the work, exposure to chemicals, and
demanding conditions make it less attractive to
potential employees. Rapidly growing industries
such as electronics, footwear, and furniture offer
higher wages and better working conditions,
drawing talent away from the textile sector. This
intensifies the challenge of recruiting and
retaining skilled workers.
Resistance to change: Employees may resist the
implementation of new technologies due to fear
of job displacement or unfamiliarity with
advanced systems. Companies need to manage
this resistance and foster a culture that embraces
technological change.
54 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
4. SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE
AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL
TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE
COMPETITIVENESS
4.1 Scenario Design
This study employs the Global Trade and Environment Model (GTEM) – a recursive dynamic,
multi-country, and multi-region computable general equilibrium (CGE) framework developed by
the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) – to analyze economic
activities (Nong et al., 2023, Lu et al., 2024). We employ the Global Trade Analysis Project
database version 10a (which represents the world economy in 2014), with 141 countries and
regions1 and 65 sectors2 (Aguiar et al., 2019). For this study, the data is aggregated into 22 countries/
regions and 46 industrial
sectors, focusing on the textile and garment supply chains (see Appendix 2 for more details on the
model and database).
1
https://www.gtap.agecon.purdue.edu/databases/regions.aspx?version=10
2
https://www.gtap.agecon.purdue.edu/databases/contribute/detailedsector.asp NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 55
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
BOX 1
DESCRIPTION OF A CGE MODEL
A recursive dynamic multi-region, multi-sector computable general equilibrium (CGE)
model is a powerful economic modeling tool used by researchers and policymakers to
simulate and analyze the impacts of policy changes, economic shocks, technological
development, and structural transformations over time across multiple regions and sectors.
It helps decision-makers understand how economies might evolve under different scenarios,
taking into account the complex interactions between industries, regions, and households.
Key Features of a Recursive Dynamic CGE Model
1. Multi-Region Framework:
•
What It Means: The model covers multiple geographic regions (e.g., countries or
groups of countries). Each region is treated as an individual economy with its own
resources, industries, and consumer behavior. However, the regions are interconnected
through trade, investment, and financial flows.
•
Why It Matters: This allows for the analysis of how changes in one region (such as a
new trade policy or economic growth) can affect other regions, making it essential for
understanding global and regional economic integration, trade agreements, or
international cooperation.
2. Multi-Sector Structure:
•
What It Means: The model divides each regional economy into multiple sectors or
industries, such as agriculture, manufacturing, services, and energy. Each sector interacts
with others, both as suppliers of inputs (e.g., fibers) and as consumers of outputs (e.g.,
households buying wearing apparel).
•
Why It Matters: This enables the evaluation of sector-specific policies or shocks (like
carbon taxes or technological innovations) and their cascading effects on the broader
economy. It also helps in understanding sectoral impacts on employment, production,
and consumption.
3. Recursive Dynamic Approach:
•
What It Means: The model is dynamic, meaning it captures changes over time, but it
follows a recursive structure. This means it solves the model year by year, where the
outcomes of one year (like capital accumulation or labor market conditions) influence
the next. However, agents in the economy (e.g., firms and households) typically make
decisions based on current conditions rather than perfect foresight of the future.
•
Why It Matters: This approach allows for analyzing the evolution of economies over
the medium to long term, such as the impact of gradual reforms or infrastructure
investments. It also captures cumulative effects, such as how policy or technological
changes in one year can lead to larger changes over decades.
4. General Equilibrium Nature:
•
What It Means: A CGE model captures the equilibrium across all markets (goods,
services, labor, and capital) simultaneously. It accounts for how supply and demand
interact across different markets to determine prices, production levels, and consumption
patterns.
•
Why It Matters: This provides a comprehensive view of how changes in one part of the
economy (such as a tax on carbon emissions or a change in labor policy or technological
innovations) will ripple through all markets, affecting prices, production, trade, and
income distribution. It highlights trade-offs and synergies between policies.
56 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
5. Key Agents in the Economy:
•
Households: Consumers make decisions on spending and saving based on income,
preferences, and prices.
•
Firms: Producers decide how much to produce based on costs, prices, and available
technologies.
•
Government: The model captures government activities, including taxation, spending,
and subsidies.
•
Rest of the World: It simulates international trade, investment, and capital flows,
showing how domestic economies interact with global markets.
•
Why It Matters: This enables policymakers to assess distributional impacts, such as how
changes in taxes, subsidies, or trade policies will affect different households, industries,
and regions. It is especially useful for equity and inclusion analysis.
6. Key Data Inputs:
•
The model uses large datasets, such as input-output tables (which show the flow of goods
and services between sectors), trade data, labor market statistics, and national accounts.
•
Why It Matters: High-quality data ensures that the model’s results reflect real-world
economic conditions and provide realistic forecasts, making it a reliable tool for
evidence-based policy design.
Applications for Policymakers
1.	 Policy Impact Analysis:
•	Policymakers can simulate the economic impacts of policy proposals, such as tax
reforms, energy policies, trade agreements, or labor market regulations. The model
shows how these policies affect GDP, employment, inflation, income distribution, and
sectoral output.
2.	 Trade and Globalization:
•	A multi-region CGE model helps evaluate the effects of trade policies, tariffs, and
trade agreements (e.g., free trade zones, tariffs) on both domestic and international
economies. It provides insights into how different countries or regions will be impacted
by changes in trade flows and global supply chains.
3.	 Environmental and Climate Policies:
•	By incorporating environmental data, the model can assess the effects of carbon
pricing, emissions reductions, or renewable energy transitions. It helps estimate the
economic cost of environmental policies and identifies opportunities for sustainable
growth while mitigating adverse impacts on industries and workers.
4.	 Technological Change and Innovation:
•	Policymakers can use the model to analyze how technological advancements (e.g.,
automation, digitalization) will affect labor markets, productivity, and industrial
competitiveness. It highlights the sectors likely to benefit or suffer and suggests policy
responses to support vulnerable industries or regions.
5.	 Investment and Infrastructure Planning:
•	The recursive dynamic feature allows for long-term analysis of infrastructure
investments (e.g., transport, energy, digital infrastructure) by showing how they
stimulate growth, productivity, and job creation over time.
6.	 Income Distribution and Equity:
•	CGE models can be used to study the distributional effects of policies. For example,
policymakers can assess how tax reforms or social policies (like healthcare or
education subsidies) impact different income groups or regions.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 57
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
4.1.1 Baseline Scenario
We project the global economy from 2014 to 2045 under a baseline scenario (see Box 2) aligned
with Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 2 (SSP2), which incorporates forecasts for real GDP and
population growth through 2045 (Fricko et al., 2017). Labor supply is assumed to grow in line with
population trends. In each region, real GDP projections are achieved by adjusting primary-factor-
augmenting technological change to match the anticipated GDP levels.
In addition, we integrate projections for productivity and efficiency improvements in the crop,
livestock, fishery, and food processing sectors, based on estimates from Hatfield-Dodds et al.
(2017). Global emissions forecasts are derived from the International Energy Agency’s World
Energy Outlook 2023 (IEA, 2021), which predicts that global emissions could peak at 56.5 billion
tons of CO2-equivalent (CO2e) annually by 2030, declining to 51.5 billion tons by 2050. Projections
for individual greenhouse gases (such as CO2 and CH4) are accounted for by endogenizing global
emission intensity for each gas. We also assume a uniform 1% annual improvement in energy
efficiency across all sectors and households worldwide. For Vietnam, GDP and export forecasts to
key trading partners—including China, India, the USA, Canada, the UK, Australia, Japan, and the
ROK—are based on estimates from the General Statistics Office of Vietnam, covering the period
from 2014 to 2023.
58 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
BOX 2
UNDERSTANDING TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS VS. BASELINE SCENARIOS
1.	 Baseline Scenario (Status Quo):
•	This reflects a future where technological change occurs at a predicted or historical
pace, based on current trends and assumptions.
•	It assumes that no major innovations, breakthroughs, or disruptive technologies occur
beyond what is already anticipated.
•	The baseline serves as a reference point for comparing the effects of new technological
innovations.
2.	 Introduction of Technological Advancements:
•	When evaluating technological advancements, the model introduces new or improved
technologies that exceed the assumptions in the baseline.
•	These advancements can include things like:
•	 Increased productivity (e.g., automation, artificial intelligence).
•	 Energy efficiency improvements (e.g., renewable energy sources, energy storage
systems).
•	 Cost reductions in production processes or materials (e.g., 3D printing,
nanotechnology).
•	 Environmental benefits (e.g., carbon capture technologies, circular economy
innovations).
3.	 Comparative Analysis:
•	The impact of technological advancements is measured by comparing key outcomes
(such as GDP, emissions, productivity, or sector-specific growth) between the baseline
scenario and a scenario where new technologies are introduced.
•	Deviations from the baseline are analyzed to understand the incremental effects of
these advancements. This can highlight how much technology changes the overall
trajectory of the economy, industry, or society.
Key Areas of Impact of Technological Advancements vs. Baseline:
1.	 Economic Growth and Productivity:
•	In the baseline scenario: Productivity grows at a slow or historical rate, limiting
potential economic growth.
•	With technological advancements: Improved technologies can significantly boost
productivity across sectors, leading to higher GDP growth, more efficient industries,
and better use of resources.
•	Example: Automation and AI might increase manufacturing output compared to the
baseline where traditional production methods are assumed.
2.	 Employment and Labor Markets:
•	In the baseline scenario: Employment and wages grow at expected rates, often
constrained by slow technological progress.
•	With technological advancements: New technologies might shift labor demand by
automating tasks, creating new industries, or requiring more skilled labor. The overall
impact on employment may be higher or lower depending on the nature of the
technological change.
•	Example: The introduction of AI-driven services might require new skills and jobs,
differing from the baseline where these jobs don’t exist yet.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 59
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
3.	 Environmental Impact:
•	In the baseline scenario: Emissions, resource use, and environmental degradation
continue at projected rates based on current technologies.
•	With technological advancements: Green technologies (e.g., renewable energy,
electric vehicles, carbon capture) can reduce emissions and resource use, leading to
more sustainable growth paths compared to the baseline.
•	Example: A baseline might project rising CO2 emissions, but with advancements in
clean energy, emissions could stabilize or decrease significantly.
4.	 Market Structure and Competition:
•	In the baseline scenario: Industries continue to operate with the same competitive
dynamics, often with gradual technological changes.
•	With technological advancements: Innovations can disrupt market structures,
enabling new entrants or transforming existing players into more dominant forces.
•	Example: In the baseline, the automotive industry might rely on internal combustion
engines. With advancements in electric vehicles and batteries, this industry could shift
dramatically, creating new market leaders and disrupting traditional players.
5.	 Social and Societal Impacts:
•	In the baseline scenario: Social development follows predictable trends in terms of
education, healthcare, and quality of life improvements.
•	With technological advancements: Innovations in areas like healthcare (e.g.,
biotechnology, telemedicine) or education (e.g., digital learning) can lead to faster
improvements in human well-being than what is projected in the baseline.
•	Example: A baseline might predict steady improvements in health outcomes, but
advancements in gene therapy or telemedicine could dramatically accelerate health
benefits for the population.
6.	 Sector-Specific Developments:
•	In the baseline scenario: Each sector grows or changes based on historical trends and
current technology.
•	With technological advancements: Key sectors such as energy, manufacturing, and
agriculture may undergo transformation. New technologies can lead to changes in
production methods, cost structures, and output levels.
•	Example: In agriculture, the baseline may assume traditional farming methods, but
with advancements in precision farming and biotechnology, crop yields might increase,
and resource usage might decrease.
60 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
4.1.2 Green Growth and Technological Development Scenarios
We design the green growth and technological development scenarios around four key pathways:
low green–low tech, low green–high tech, high green–low tech, and high green–high tech. These
scenarios examine how varying rates of green growth and technological advancements in Vietnam’s
textile and garment industries will impact the sectors and their supply chains.
In all scenarios, only the Vietnam textile and garment industries experience differentiated shocks,
while shocks for the global textile and garment industries remain unchanged with the values shown
in Table 2. We assume global energy efficiency improves at a rate of 3% per year from 2024 to
2030, as estimated by the International Energy Agency3, with a slower growth rate of 2.5% per year
between 2031 and 2037, and 2% per year from 2037 to 2045 following business cycles. These
assumptions align with the Solow growth model, which predicts decreasing annual energy
efficiency gains over time. The same growth pattern is assumed for chemical use and the recycling
of water and materials. For annual labor productivity growth in the textile and garment industries,
we follow estimates from (El Achkar Hilal et al., 2022).
TABLE 2
COMMON SHOCKS FOR WORLD’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRIES
Target
Indicator
Period
2024-30
2031-37
2038-45
Green growth
Energy efficient growth (%/year)
3%
2.50%
2%
Chemical utilization efficiency growth (%/year)
3%
2.50%
2%
Re-use efficiency growth of water and
recycling material (%/year)
3%
2.50%
2%
Technology
development
Labor productivity (textile industry)
7%
6%
5%
Labor productivity (garment industry)
6%
5%
4%
Note: In all green growth and technological development scenarios, the common shocks for world’s textile and garment industries
are implemented. In other words, there are only differences in shock values for Vietnam’s textile and garment industries if not
specified, for example, in Scenario S12.
Table 3 outlines four primary scenarios focused on Vietnam’s textile and garment industries. In the
first scenario (S1: low green–low tech), these industries achieve only 1% annual growth in green
growth indicators, which is lower than the growth observed in international markets. In this
scenario, we assume that labor productivity growth rates in Vietnam’s textile and garment sectors
remain on par with those of the international market. In the second scenario (S2: low green–high
tech), Vietnam is assumed to achieve labor productivity growth rates two percentage points higher
per year than those in the global market. Similarly, in the third (S3: high green–low tech) and
fourth scenarios (S4: high green–high tech), we assume improvements in green growth indicators
and technological development in Vietnam’s textile and garment industries that exceed the
respective growth rates in international markets. The major differences in growth rates in Vietnam
compared to the rates in the international market over scenarios S1-S4 are to show clear impact
differences across scenarios. Over experiments in selections of growth rates, these are the rates
giving clear signals in showing the impacts of factors on the growth and competitiveness of the
textile and garment industry in Vietnam.
3
https://www.iea.org/reports/energy-efficiency-the-decade-for-action/decade-for-action-highlights
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 61
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
In addition to the four main scenarios, we also conduct supplementary analyses to explore additional
scenarios, focusing on the impact of individual indicators on the performance of Vietnam’s textile
and garment industry.
•
S5 = S4 + maintenance of the same labor productivity growth per annum in 2038-2045 as in
2031-2037.
•
S6 = S4 + maintenance of the same labor productivity growth per annum in 2031-2045 as in
2024-2030.
•
S7 = S6 + capital productivity growth by 3% per annum in 2024-2045.
•
S8 = S6 + capital productivity growth by 5% per annum in 2024-2045.
•
S9 = S6 + capital productivity growth by 7% per annum in 2024-2045.
•
S10 = S4 + total factor productivity increases by 1% per annum in 2024-2045 to substitute for
increasing labor and capital productivity.
•
S11 = S4 + total factor productivity increases by 2% per annum in 2037-2045 for textile
industry.
•
S12 = S11 + total factor productivity of all other countries increases by 0.5% per annum to
substitute for labor productivity.
Target
Scenarios
S1 (Low Green –
Low Tech)
S2 (Low Green -
High Tech)
S3 (High Green -
Low tech)
S4 (High Green -
High Tech)
Indicators/periods
2024-
30
2031-
37
2037-
45
2024-
30
2031-
37
2037-
45
2024-
30
2031-
37
2037-
45
2024-
30
2031-
37
2037-
45
Green growth
Energy efficient growth
(%/year)
1%
1%
1%
1%
1%
1%
5%
4%
3%
5%
4%
3%
Chemical utilization
efficiency growth (%/year)
1%
1%
1%
1%
1%
1%
5%
4%
3%
5%
4%
3%
Re-use efficiency growth
of water and recycling
material (%/year)
1%
1%
1%
1%
1%
1%
5%
4%
3%
5%
4%
3%
Utilization efficiency
growth of vegetable oils
substituted for chemicals
(%/year)
nil
nil
nil
nil
nil
nil
5%
4%
3%
5%
4%
3%
Technological
development
Labor productivity (textile industry)
7%
6%
5%
9%
8%
7%
7%
6%
5%
9%
8%
7%
Labor productivity
(garment industry)
6%
5%
4%
8%
7%
6%
6%
5%
4%
8%
7%
6%
TABLE 3
FOUR MAIN SCENARIOS FOCUSING ON VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRIES
We also decompose the impact of each factor/growth by developing generic scenarios as shown in
Table 4. We select a growth rate of 1% as a generic unit to ease the impact assessment of each
factor on the output level of the textile and garment industry. In other words, it helps answer the
question, for example, if energy efficiency increases by 1% per year, how much percentage of
textile and garment output levels will increase.
62 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Target
Indicators
Scenarios
A0
A1
A2
A3
A4
A5
A6
2024-45 2024-45 2024-45 2024-45 2024-45 2024-45 2024-45
Green growth
Energy efficient growth (%/year)
0%
1%
1%
Chemical utilization efficiency growth (%/year)
0%
1%
1%
Re-use efficiency growth of water and
recycling material (%/year)
0%
1%
1%
Utilization efficiency growth of vegetable
oils substituted for chemicals (%/year)
0%
1%
1%
Technological
development
Labor productivity (textile industry) (%/year)
0%
1%
1%
Labor productivity (garment industry) (%/year)
0%
1%
1%
TABLE 4
SHOCKS PREPARED FOR SCENARIOS FOR IMPACT DECOMPOSITION ANALYSIS
4.2 Result Analysis
In general, productivity improvements in a specific factor make it more efficient and cost-effective
to use, enhancing the performance of sectors that rely on that factor, as well as the broader economy.
Related supply chains also benefit from cheaper inputs, further boosting sectoral performance.
However, whether a sector grows or experiences a decline in output depends on its competitiveness
relative to similar sectors in other markets. For instance, if textile and garment industries in markets
outside Vietnam perform significantly better and offer lower product prices, Vietnam’s textile and
garment sector may struggle to expand production and may even need to reduce output. Nonetheless,
the negative impact would be less severe than in the absence of productivity improvements. It is
also noted that baseline values and changes relative to these baselines for each scenario are
provided in Appendix 3.
4.2.1 Primary Scenarios
The future of Vietnam’s textile and garment industry can be shaped by various approaches to green
growth and technological advancement. To explore this, we have identified four key scenarios that
represent different combinations of environmental sustainability and productivity improvements.
These scenarios range from minimal advancements in both areas to full integration of cutting-edge
technology and green practices. Each scenario presents distinct opportunities and challenges for
the industry, outlining potential paths for Vietnam to remain competitive while addressing global
market demands for efficiency, sustainability, and innovation.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 63
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
4.2.1.1 Scenario 1 Slow and Steady (Low Green – Low Tech)
This scenario reflects a gradual, conservative approach with minimal advancements in both green
growth and technology. The industry’s focus remains on maintaining current practices without
significant investment in sustainability or technological improvements. In terms of green growth,
there are only slight improvements in energy efficiency, chemical usage, water consumption, and
the use of recycled materials. These changes are incremental and do not involve any major
overhauls in environmental practices. For technology and productivity, labor productivity in both
the textile and garment sectors remains at baseline levels, meaning there is little to no progress in
adopting new technologies or improving efficiency.
Opportunities in this scenario include the benefit of lower initial investments for adopting green
technology, as businesses do not need to commit significant resources to drastic changes.
Additionally, stable, incremental improvements in both efficiency and labor productivity could
still provide small gains over time without the risks associated with rapid transformation.
However, the challenges are substantial. The industry risks falling behind international standards
on sustainability and innovation, which are becoming increasingly important in global markets.
Additionally, this approach limits Vietnam’s ability to meet growing global demand for sustainable
and efficient production processes, ultimately affecting its competitiveness on the world stage.
Conditions for the scenario to occur
Risks
• 	Cost-benefit focus: Government and industry
prioritize cost-saving over green and
technological investments.
• 	Stable market demand: International markets
continue to accept Vietnam’s production at its
current environmental and technological levels.
• 	Incremental industry changes: A slow,
conservative approach to improvements,
focusing on maintaining current productivity
and environmental impact without pushing for
radical change.
• 	Market access: Growing global emphasis on
sustainability could result in a lack of access to
eco-conscious markets/buyers.
• 	Environmental costs: Over time, the lack of
green practices may lead to higher operational
costs due to resource inefficiencies (e.g., water,
chemicals).
• 	Reputation damage: Limited focus on
environmental impact could harm Vietnam’s
reputation with global brands and consumers.
4.2.1.2 Scenario 2: Tech Driven (Low Green – High Tech)
This scenario centers on leveraging technological advancements to enhance productivity while
maintaining minimal improvements in environmental sustainability. The industry prioritizes
efficiency and productivity through technology, often at the expense of green initiatives. Regarding
green growth, this scenario sees minimal improvements in environmental practices and initiatives.
The emphasis is primarily on technological solutions rather than adopting sustainable practices. In
terms of technology and productivity, there are significant enhancements in labor productivity
across both the textile and garment sectors. The integration of advanced technologies enables
companies to optimize operations and achieve higher output levels, leading to increased
competitiveness in global markets.
64 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
The opportunities presented by this scenario include the potential for higher labor productivity,
which can significantly enhance a company’s competitiveness on the international stage.
Additionally, businesses can increase their production capacity and output without making
substantial changes to their environmental practices, allowing for short-term gains in efficiency.
However, the challenges are noteworthy. The focus on low green growth may lead to regulatory
hurdles and reputation issues, especially in sustainability-focused markets where consumers and
brands are increasingly demanding eco-friendly practices. Furthermore, the long-term
environmental inefficiencies and resource usage associated with minimal green initiatives could
hinder future growth and viability in a market that is progressively leaning towards sustainability.
Conditions for the scenario to occur
Risks
• 	Advanced automation: Strong focus on
improving productivity through technology
adoption, including automation, AI, and
robotics.
• 	Labor productivity initiatives: Workforce training
and technology integration lead to improved
labor productivity, offsetting the lack of green
initiatives.
• 	Global demand for efficiency: Continued
demand for efficient, low-cost production rather
than purely sustainable practices.
• 	Market access: Growing global emphasis on
sustainability could result in a lack of access to
eco-conscious markets.
• 	Environmental costs: Over time, the lack of
green practices may lead to higher operational
costs due to resource inefficiencies (e.g., water,
chemicals).
• 	Reputation damage: Limited focus on
environmental impact could harm Vietnam’s
reputation with global brands and consumers.
4.2.1.3 Scenario 3: Green Driven (High Green – Low Tech)
This scenario emphasizes a strong commitment to environmental sustainability while making only
moderate advancements in labor productivity. The textile and garment industries in this context
focus on improving ecological outcomes rather than technological innovation. In terms of green
growth, this scenario showcases significant improvements in areas such as energy efficiency,
chemical usage, water conservation, and the utilization of recycled materials. Companies adopt
robust sustainability practices, striving to minimize their environmental impact and align with
global standards for eco-friendliness. However, when it comes to technology and productivity,
labor productivity remains at baseline levels. The industry does not prioritize technological
upgrades, which may limit overall productivity gains. This reliance on established practices may
hinder companies’ ability to maximize efficiency fully.
The opportunities within this scenario are compelling. Companies that achieve strong
environmental credentials can access new market segments increasingly focused on sustainability.
By improving resource efficiency, businesses can also reduce long-term operational costs, further
enhancing their profitability. Nonetheless, there are challenges that accompany this scenario. The
slower growth in productivity may result in higher production costs, which can limit the
competitiveness of firms in the global market. Additionally, the capacity to scale up production in
response to increasing demand may be constrained, as the focus on green practices could restrict
rapid expansion and adaptation to market changes.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 65
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Conditions for the scenario to occur
Risks
• 	Strong green-focused regulatory frameworks:
Government incentives and global agreements
encourage significant investment in green
practices (e.g., energy efficiency, recycled
materials).
•	Eco-conscious global demand: Increasing
demand from eco-focused customers/brands
pushes the industry towards greener practices.
•	Sustainability partnerships: Collaboration with
global NGOs, institutions, and environmental
organizations to build and promote greener
practices.
• 	Productivity lag: Limited focus on improving
technology and productivity may cause
production costs to rise, reducing
competitiveness in high-volume markets.
• 	Technological barriers: Low adoption of new
production technologies may result in
operational inefficiencies.
• 	Market fragmentation: Green growth may not be
enough if other countries offer both green
production and higher productivity, leading to a
loss of competitive edge.
4.2.1.4 Scenario 4: Sustainable Innovation (High Green – High Tech)
This scenario represents a synergistic approach, combining high levels of green growth with
cutting-edge technological advancements. The objective is to achieve global competitiveness by
prioritizing both sustainability and operational efficiency. In terms of green growth, this scenario
is characterized by significant improvements in energy efficiency, chemical usage, water
conservation, and the utilization of recycled materials. Companies in this scenario are committed
to meeting and exceeding environmental standards, establishing themselves as leaders in sustainable
practices within the textile and garment industry. On the technology and productivity front, there
are strong improvements in labor productivity across both textiles and garments. The integration
of innovative technologies enhances production capabilities, allowing businesses to operate more
efficiently and effectively while maintaining their environmental commitments.
The opportunities presented in this scenario are substantial. The combination of high green growth
and productivity improvements positions companies for long-term sustainability and
competitiveness in the global market. Furthermore, businesses can meet the increasing
environmental standards demanded by consumers and brands, making them attractive partners for
eco-conscious organizations. This scenario fosters innovation leadership, as companies that invest
in sustainable practices can appeal to global brands focused on sustainable production. However,
the scenario also poses challenges. The high initial and ongoing investments required for both
green growth and technological upgrades can strain financial resources, particularly for smaller
enterprises. Additionally, managing the transition to a sustainable and high-tech model requires
careful planning and execution to keep costs under control while implementing significant changes.
Balancing these investments and the management of the transition is crucial for success in this
competitive landscape.
66 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Conditions for the scenario to occur
Risks
• 	Strong government support: Policies that
promote both green growth and technology
adoption, including subsidies for R&D in
eco-friendly technologies.
• 	Private sector investment: Significant private
investment in technological advancements and
green innovations in production processes and
workforce capacity training.
• 	Global market shifts: Growing consumer and
brand demand for products that are both
sustainably produced and cost-efficient, creating
a competitive advantage for Vietnam.
• 	Partnerships and innovation: Collaborations with
international firms, NGOs, and institutions
focused on developing sustainable and high-
tech solutions.
• 	High capital costs: The significant investment
required in both green technology and
productivity improvements could strain
resources, especially for smaller companies.
• 	Implementation challenges: Difficulty in
coordinating and implementing both green and
technological upgrades simultaneously and over
time, leading to potential delays or inefficiencies.
• 	Labor skill gaps: The adoption of advanced
green technologies and high-tech processes
may require specialized skills and training. A lack
of skilled labor retention or difficulties in
upskilling the existing workforce could hinder
effective implementation and maintenance of
new technologies.
4.2.2. Decomposition of Impacts (Scenarios A0-A6)
This section breaks down the individual impact of various factors affecting Vietnam’s textile and
garment industries, comparing deviations from the baseline across Scenarios A0-A6.
Table 5 highlights the effects on Vietnam’s real GDP in each scenario. In Scenario A0, Vietnam
benefits from increased global productivity within the textile and garment
industries, driven by green growth and technological advancements. As a result, Vietnam’s real
GDP steadily rises from 2025 to 2045, reaching a 7.21% increase in 2045 relative to the baseline.
This is primarily due to the improved efficiency and reduced costs in global textile and garment
production, which positively impact Vietnam’s supply chains. Although Vietnam’s textile and
garment industries do not experience direct productivity growth, the country still benefits from
more cost-effective global supply chains.
In Scenarios A1-A5, where individual indicators improve by 1% annually (see Table 4.4), the
impacts on Vietnam’s real GDP vary. In Scenario A3, the impact on real GDP mirrors that of A0,
suggesting that efficiency gains from reusing water and recycling materials in Vietnam’s textile
and garment industries are not significant drivers of economic growth. Similarly, Scenario A4
shows that substituting vegetable oil for chemicals in these industries does not notably boost
Vietnam’s economy.
In Scenario A2, improvements in chemical usage lead to modest gains in economic performance,
with real GDP increasing by 0.07 percentage points in 2030 and 0.12 percentage points in 2045
compared to A0. However, the largest GDP growth is observed in Scenarios A1 and A5, where
improvements in energy efficiency and labor productivity within Vietnam’s textile and garment
industries drive the most substantial gains. For instance, by 2045, real GDP is 0.25 percentage
points higher compared to A0.
Scenario A6 combines the effects of all improvements from A1-A5, demonstrating that these
combined advancements would boost Vietnam’s real GDP by 0.61 percentage points in 2045
compared to A0. This highlights that energy efficiency and labor productivity improvements are
the most critical factors in driving Vietnam’s economic growth in this sector. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 67
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
TABLE 5
IMPACT ON VIETNAM’S REAL GDP ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
Scenario
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
A0
0.33
2.09
4.16
5.89
7.21
A1
0.36
2.19
4.32
6.1
7.46
A2
0.36
2.16
4.26
6.01
7.33
A3
0.33
2.09
4.16
5.89
7.21
A4
0.34
2.1
4.16
5.9
7.22
A5
0.39
2.25
4.38
6.13
7.45
A6
0.44
2.41
4.64
6.46
7.82
Table 6 illustrates that the impact on the performance of Vietnam’s textile and garment industries,
measured by output levels, follows a different trajectory compared to the effect on Vietnam’s real
GDP. In Scenario A0, where productivity improvements occur in the textile and garment industries
of other countries but not in Vietnam, Vietnam’s industries experience a significant loss of
competitiveness, leading to substantial output reductions. Specifically, Vietnam’s textile output
declines by 6% in 2025, worsening to a 57% reduction by 2045 compared to the baseline. Similarly,
the output level of Vietnam’s garment industry decreases by 5% in 2025, reaching a 52% decline
by 2045.
These declines are driven by productivity improvements in textile and garment industries in other
markets (see Table 4.2), making their production more efficient and cost-effective. As a result,
their products become cheaper, enhancing their competitiveness relative to Vietnam’s textile and
garment sectors.
TABLE 6
IMPACTS ON VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT OUTPUT LEVELS ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS
FROM THE BASELINE)
Industry
Scenario
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
Textile
A0
-6.1
-19.2
-31.7
-47.6
-57.2
A1
-6.1
-19.3
-31.7
-47.7
-57.3
A2
-5.8
-18.3
-30.3
-46.2
-56.0
A3
-6.1
-19.2
-31.7
-47.6
-57.2
A4
-6.1
-19.2
-31.6
-47.6
-57.2
A5
-5.2
-16.5
-27.7
-43.5
-54.0
A6
-4.8
-15.5
-26.3
-41.9
-52.6
Wearing
A0
-4.7
-15.4
-23.7
-35.9
-51.7
A1
-4.7
-15.4
-23.7
-35.9
-51.7
A2
-4.4
-14.4
-22.2
-34.0
-49.8
A3
-4.7
-15.4
-23.7
-35.9
-51.7
A4
-4.7
-15.3
-23.7
-35.8
-51.7
A5
-3.8
-12.6
-19.4
-30.8
-46.9
A6
-3.5
-11.6
-17.9
-28.8
-44.8
68 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Table 6 reveals that, unlike the impact on Vietnam’s real GDP, energy efficiency improvements in
Vietnam’s textile and garment industries have minimal effects on their output levels, as shown by
the small differences between Scenario A1 and A0. This is because energy efficiency improvements
primarily benefit the supply chains linked to these industries rather than directly enhancing the
industries themselves. Consequently, while the output levels of these sectors see little change, the
positive impacts on Vietnam’s overall GDP are more pronounced.
Among all scenarios, improving labor productivity in these industries (Scenario A5) has the most
favorable impact on their output levels. As labor-intensive sectors, enhancements in labor
productivity lead to better performance, reflected in smaller declines in output levels. For instance,
the textile sector shows a reduced negative impact of -54%, while the garment sector experiences
a -47% decrease, making this the most effective intervention for boosting sector performance.
4.2.3 Result Analysis of Vietnam’s Textile and Garment Industries in Green Growth and
Technological Development Scenarios (Scenarios S1-S12)
Figure 27 illustrates the impacts on the output levels of Vietnam’s textile and garment industries
across Scenarios S1-S12. In Scenario S1 (low green–low tech), where Vietnam’s labor productivity
grows at the same rate as other countries, but green growth indicators remain significantly below
global levels, the output of Vietnam’s textile industry sees only modest growth for a few years,
peaking by 2028. Afterward, the output begins to decline, reaching a 34% reduction by 2045
compared to the baseline. The garment industry follows a similar trend, with output growth peaking
in 2035 at a 3.6% increase relative to the baseline, but gradually falling to a 22% reduction by 2045.
In Scenario S2 (low green – high tech), when labor productivity in Vietnam’s textile and garment
industries improves at a higher rate than in international markets, the performance of these sectors,
as measured by output levels, also improves significantly. Specifically, the output level of Vietnam’s
textile industry gradually increases, reaching 4.8% above the baseline by 2030, while the garment
industry sees a more substantial improvement of 13.2% by 2036. However, these years mark the
peak growth rates for both industries. Following this peak, they begin to lose competitiveness and
cannot sustain their growth, resulting in output declines of 26% for textiles and 10% for garments
by 2045 compared to the baseline.
In Scenario S3 (high green – low tech), while green growth indicators in Vietnam surpass international
levels, labor productivity remains aligned with global standards. This leads to similar impact
patterns on output levels as observed in S2. When both green growth indicators and labor productivity
improve at higher rates relative to international levels in Scenario S4 (high green – high tech), the
textile and garment industries can only sustain output growth for a limited time—2032 for textiles,
reaching a 13.2% increase, and 2037 for garments, approaching a 26.9% increase—before
experiencing declines and diminished competitiveness. The results from Scenarios S1-S4 suggest
that even when productivity and efficiency in Vietnam’s textile and garment industries exceed those
in other markets (as in S4), these sectors cannot maintain competitiveness beyond a decade due to
the more efficient production and lower costs in other countries.
In Scenarios S5 and S6, although labor productivity in Vietnam’s textile and garment industries
improves at higher rates, it results in only slight performance enhancements, yielding peak growth
rates in the mid-2030s and reduced negative impacts in 2045 compared to the baseline. Notably,
while the garment industry still shows positive growth in 2045, the textile industry faces a
significant output reduction of 16-18% in S5 and S6 compared to the baseline.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 69
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
IMPACTS ON VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT OUTPUT LEVELS ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
a) Textile
b) Garment
FIGURE 27
-40.0
-30.0
-20.0
-10.0
0.0
10.0
20.0
30.0
40.0
50.0
60.0
2024
2030
2035
2040
2045
S4
S5
S2
S3
S1
S9
S10
S7
S8
S6
S11
S12
-50.0
0.0
50.0
100.0
150.0
200.0
250.0
2024
2030
2035
2040
2045
S4
S5
S2
S3
S1
S9
S10
S7
S8
S6
S11
S12
70 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
When capital productivity growth is introduced in Scenarios S7-S9, both industries experience
improved performance. For example, the output level of Vietnam’s textile industry increases
gradually to a peak of 22-29% above the baseline by 2035, declining by only 6.4-1.5% in 2045
compared to the baseline. With a 7% annual increase in capital productivity, the textile industry
still manages a positive output growth of 0.9% in 2045 relative to the baseline. However, the
results from Scenarios S7-S9 indicate that even significant improvements in capital productivity
cannot sustain growth in these industries beyond 2035, resulting in continued long-term
competitiveness losses.
In Scenario S10, where total factor productivity grows at 1% per annum to substitute for labor and
capital productivity growth, the performance of Vietnam’s textile and garment industries improves
significantly. For instance, the output level of the textile industry increases by 17.6% in 2036 and
9.1% in 2045 compared to the baseline, while the garment industry sees gradual output growth
from 2024-2045, reaching a remarkable 135% increase by 2045. However, even with a 1% annual
increase in total factor productivity, the textile industry still experiences declining output growth
trends from 2037-2045.
In Scenario S11, with an increase in total factor productivity to 2% from 2037-2045 instead of 1%,
the textile industry no longer shows declining trends, with output levels growing steadily from
2024-2045 and reaching 39.4% above the baseline by 2045. In Scenario S12, when all other
markets also experience total factor productivity improvements of 0.5% per annum, Vietnam’s
textile and garment industries continue to experience gradual output growth from 2024-2045. In
fact, these sectors exhibit higher growth rates compared to Scenario S11, with the textile industry
increasing its output by 20% in 2030, 29% in 2035, and 48% in 2045 compared to the baseline. The
garment industry shows even greater growth rates of 66% in 2030, 130% in 2035, and 225% in
2045. This indicates that a 0.5% improvement in total factor productivity in international markets
does not equate to the improvements of other factors shown in Table 2, which ultimately diminishes
the competitiveness of international textile and garment industries compared to their Vietnamese
counterparts. Figure 28 illustrates the impacts on the export levels of Vietnam’s textile and garment
industries across Scenarios S1-S12.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 71
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
IMPACTS ON VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND WEARING EXPORT LEVELS ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
a) Textile
b) Wearing
FIGURE 28
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
2024
2030
2035
2040
2045
S4
S5
S2
S3
S1
S9
S10
S7
S8
S6
S11
S12
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
2024
2030
2035
2040
2045
S4
S5
S2
S3
S1
S9
S10
S7
S8
S6
S11
S12
72 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
4.2.4 Result Analysis of Vietnam’s Textile and Garment Industries’ Key Supply Chains in
Green Growth and Technological Development Scenarios
Figure 29 illustrates the impact of fiber imports by Vietnam from its primary trading partners. In
the baseline scenario, fiber from Africa, the USA, and Latin America become relatively inexpensive
compared to those from other markets, leading most countries, including Vietnam, to significantly
increase their import demands for fiber from these regions. Specifically, in the baseline, Vietnam’s
imports of fibers from Africa, the USA, and Latin America rise from USD1,432 million, USD1,810
million, and USD757 million in 2030 to USD3,436 million, USD3,584 million, and USD1,558
million in 2045 (see Table 3.5 in Appendix 3). In contrast, imports of fiber from India see only a
modest increase, rising from USD634 million in 2030 to USD651 million in 2045.
Consequently, in the green growth and technological development scenarios, the relatively cheaper
fibers from Africa, the USA, and Latin America continue to dominate exports to Vietnam,
effectively substituting for the more expensive fibers from India. This results in substantial
increases in imports of fibers from Africa, the USA, and Latin America, while imports from India
decrease. Notably, the imports of fibers from Africa to Vietnam experience the highest growth rates
across scenarios, driven by strong growth in the textile and garment industries in the USA and
Latin America, which create high domestic demand for fibers, with most of Africa’s fibers
production directed toward exports.
In particular, Vietnam reduces its imports of fibers from India by 16-26% in 2030 and by 60-73%
in 2045 across various scenarios compared to the baseline. In contrast, the demand for fibers from
Africa increases significantly, with growth rates of 12-22% in 2030 and 26-39% in 2045
across scenarios.
IMPACT ON IMPORT OF FIBERS BY VIETNAM FROM MAJOR TRADING PARTNERS IN SELECTED YEARS ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
Note: The bars from left to right indicate alternately scenarios S1-S12 in each country/region.
FIGURE 29
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
India
USA
Africa
Latin
America
2045
-30.0
-20.0
-10.0
0.0
10.0
20.0
30.0
2030
India
USA
Africa
Latin
America
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S7
S8
S9
S10
S11
S12
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 73
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
The demand for chemicals is influenced by generic productivity improvements in chemical
utilization, resulting in an overall decline in the demand for chemicals per output unit in the textile
and garment industries. However, this decline also depends on the relative price changes between
trading partners. Specifically, the results indicate that chemical outputs from countries such as
China, Germany, the USA, Indonesia, and the UK decrease across scenarios due to their higher
prices compared to other markets. This reduction in chemical output shifts the supply curve
backward, leading to increased chemical prices in these regions relative to others.
As a consequence, Vietnam’s demand for importing chemicals from China, Germany, the USA,
Indonesia, and the UK declines significantly, with a reduction of 50% expected in 2030 and 75%
in 2045 across scenarios. This decline is partially offset by increased imports of chemicals from
other markets, such as India (approximately 40% in 2030 and 250% in 2045), Japan (65% in 2030
and 300% in 2045), the ROK (80% in 2030 and 245% in 2045), Thailand (80% in 2030 and 300%
in 2045), and the Middle East (70% in 2030 and 100% in 2045) (see Figure 30).
IMPACT ON IMPORT OF CHEMICALS BY VIETNAM FROM MAJOR TRADING PARTNERS IN SELECTED YEARS ACROSS SCENARIOS
(% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
Note: The bars from left to right indicate alternately scenarios S1-S12 in each country/region.
FIGURE 30
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
2045
Rest Asia
Middle East
UK
Thailand
ROK
Japan
Indonesia
USA
Germany
India
China
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
2030
Rest Asia
Middle East
UK
Thailand
ROK
Japan
Indonesia
USA
Germany
India
China
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S7
S8
S9
S10
S11
S12
The previous results indicate that textile output levels in Vietnam increase at relatively low rates
compared to other countries, with declining trends in output levels after several years and/or a
decade across most scenarios. Consequently, textile prices in Vietnam tend to be higher than those
in other nations. However, the overall economy of Vietnam benefits from improved productivity,
which enhances household well-being. As a result, Vietnam’s demand for textiles from foreign
markets rises to meet domestic needs.
74 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Figure 31 illustrates that demand for Japanese textiles in Vietnam experiences the highest growth
rates compared to textiles from other markets such as China, Turkiye, Indonesia, the ROK, and
Thailand. This surge is attributed to significant productivity improvements in Japan’s textile
industry, which are projected to boost the sector to grow by approximately 70% in 2030 and over
300% by 2045. This boost in productivity reduces the supply price of textiles in Japan, thereby
attracting demand from other countries, including Vietnam. For instance, Vietnam’s demand for
textiles from Japan is expected to increase by 75-260% in 2030 and by six to 14 times in 2045
relative to the baseline.
Imports of textiles from other countries also rise at relatively high rates, although not as dramatically
as the demand for Japanese textiles, primarily due to changes in relative prices. Additionally,
demand for textiles from India is projected to decline by 14% in 2030 and by 22% in 2045 compared
to the baseline, largely due to the lower prices of textiles from other markets, which supply as
substitutions for Indian textile.
IMPACT ON IMPORT OF TEXTILE BY VIETNAM FROM MAJOR TRADING PARTNERS IN SELECTED YEARS ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
Note: The bars from left to right indicate alternately scenarios S1-S12 in each country/region.
FIGURE 31
-200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Thailand
ROK
Japan
Indonesia
Turkiye
India
China
Thailand
ROK
Japan
Indonesia
Turkiye
India
China
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S7
S8
S9
S10
S11
S12
2030
2045
Vietnam’s demand for imported apparel also undergoes changes, though it experiences lower
growth rates compared to the demand for imported textiles. This is primarily because the apparel
sector in Vietnam develops relatively well across various scenarios, as previously indicated.
Consequently, the expansion of the apparel sector partially satisfies domestic demand, which is
driven by a wealthier economy characterized by increased GDP and income. As a result, the
increase in demand from international markets is less pronounced.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 75
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Figure 32 illustrates that Vietnam boosts its demand for apparel from China (by 5-27% in 2030)
and the ROK (by 2-49% in 2030) to compensate for the relatively high prices of textiles from
Thailand. By 2045, Vietnam significantly increases its apparel imports from China (by 10-73%),
while substantially reducing demand for apparel from the ROK (by 29-50%) and Thailand (by 21-
41%) due to relative price changes.
IMPACT ON IMPORT OF APPAREL BY VIETNAM FROM MAJOR TRADING PARTNERS IN SELECTED YEARS ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
Note: The bars from left to right indicate alternately scenarios S1-S12 in each country/region.
FIGURE 32
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
China
ROK
Thailand
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
China
ROK
Thailand
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S7
S8
S9
S10
S11
S12
2030
2045
4.2.5 Analysis of Macro Impacts on the Economy of Vietnam
Vietnam is poised for higher economic growth due to more efficient and cost-effective production
resulting from productivity improvements. These enhancements benefit the entire supply chain of
the textile and apparel industries by reducing input costs, which in turn fosters growth in related
sectors, propelling the Vietnamese economy to develop at an accelerated pace.
Table 7 illustrates that Vietnam could achieve a real GDP growth of USD24-65 billion by 2030 and
USD113-277 billion by 2045 compared to the baseline. These figures represent significant gains
contributing to the overall development of the Vietnamese economy. Scenario S12 indicates the
highest increases in real GDP, driven by substantial productivity improvements, while Scenario S1
shows the lowest growth increases due to relatively minimal advancements in green growth and
technological development indicators. The results in other scenarios also align with this trend,
where real GDP increases correspond with the magnitude of productivity improvements in
each scenario.
76 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
TABLE 7
BASELINE VALUES OF VIETNAM’S GDP AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD MILLION) 2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032 2033
2034
Value (USD billion)
Base
510
569
597
625
656
687
721
750
781
814
847
Changes (USD billion)
S1
1.73
4.10
7.10
10.50
14.37
18.69
23.50
28.35
33.50
39.07
44.81
Changes (USD billion)
S2
1.99
4.67
7.94
11.63
15.81
20.47
25.60
30.68
36.16
42.00
48.02
Changes (USD billion)
S3
5.10
11.44
18.69
26.69
35.56
45.14
55.59
65.33
75.52
86.37
97.49
Changes (USD billion)
S4
5.36
12.01
19.58
27.94
37.13
47.06
57.82
67.88
78.49
89.62
101.05
Changes (USD billion)
S5
5.36
12.01
19.58
27.94
37.13
47.06
57.82
67.88
78.49
89.62
101.05
Changes (USD billion)
S6
5.36
12.01
19.58
27.94
37.13
47.06
57.82
68.03
78.72
90.03
101.64
Changes (USD billion)
S7
5.81
13.09
21.25
30.25
40.08
50.70
62.15
73.05
84.35
96.30
108.42
Changes (USD billion)
S8
6.12
13.77
22.33
31.75
42.05
53.04
64.96
76.20
87.94
100.20
112.65
Changes (USD billion)
S9
6.12
13.77
22.33
31.75
42.05
53.04
64.96
76.50
88.57
101.10
113.84
Changes (USD billion)
S10
5.61
12.52
20.60
29.63
39.75
50.70
62.73
74.40
86.77
99.96
113.58
Changes (USD billion)
S11
5.61
12.52
20.60
29.63
39.75
50.70
62.73
74.40
86.77
99.96
113.58
Changes (USD billion)
S12
5.71
12.80
21.19
30.56
41.07
52.49
65.11
77.40
90.44
104.35
118.75 2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
Value (USD billion)
Base
882
916
951
987
1,025
1,064
1,101
1,139
1,178 1219.000 1262.000
Changes (USD billion)
S1
50.89
56.88
63.15
69.09
75.34
81.50
87.75
93.85
100.01
106.42
112.95
Changes (USD billion)
S2
54.42
60.73
67.14
73.43
79.75
86.18
92.59
98.75
105.08
111.54
118.25
Changes (USD billion)
S3
109.10
120.64
132.28
142.92
153.75
164.49
174.84
184.86
194.72
204.79
214.79
Changes (USD billion)
S4
112.98
124.76
136.56
147.46
158.47
169.28
179.68
189.76
199.67
209.67
219.59
Changes (USD billion)
S5
112.98
124.76
136.56
147.56
158.57
169.50
180.01
190.10
200.02
210.03
220.09
Changes (USD billion)
S6
113.60
125.49
137.42
148.54
159.59
170.67
181.11
191.24
201.08
211.13
221.10
Changes (USD billion)
S7
120.92
133.28
145.60
156.93
168.31
179.39
189.92
200.01
209.80
219.79
229.68
Changes (USD billion)
S8
125.42
138.04
150.54
161.97
173.33
184.50
194.99
205.02
214.75
224.66
234.48
Changes (USD billion)
S9
126.92
139.69
152.35
163.94
175.38
186.52
196.97
206.96
216.75
226.49
236.25
Changes (USD billion)
S10
127.80
142.16
156.63
170.36
184.09
197.69
210.62
223.02
235.01
246.85
258.46
Changes (USD billion)
S11
127.80
142.16
156.63
171.15
185.73
200.14
213.81
226.89
239.61
252.09
264.14
Changes (USD billion)
S12
133.89
149.03
164.52
180.03
195.47
210.78
225.04
238.73
251.86
264.52
276.76
4.3 Discussions and Summary
The global economy, including Vietnam, is expected to benefit from strong real GDP growth due
to productivity improvements in the textile and garment industries. These sectors not only become
more cost-effective and efficient but also help reduce production costs across their entire supply
chains, enhancing the productivity of other industries. This leads to substantial economic growth,
especially in countries like Vietnam, where the textile and garment industries significantly
contribute to the GDP and employ a large portion of the workforce.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 77
SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
This report analyzes the impact of various green growth and technological development scenarios
on Vietnam’s economy, with a focus on the textile and garment industries. We utilize a recursive
dynamic computable general equilibrium model (GTEM), widely used for policy and technological
development analysis, including in studies like the Australian National Outlook and Global
Resources Outlook, which assess the effects of sustainability pathways on global and national
economies as well as major manufacturing and service sectors (Hatfield-Dodds et al., 2017; Lu et
al., 2024; Nong et al., 2023).
The scenarios are designed to identify key factors influencing Vietnam’s textile and garment
industries and explore strategies to maintain their global competitiveness. Analysis of scenarios
(A0-A6) reveals that while some factors, such as improving chemical utilization efficiency, water
recycling, and substituting chemicals with vegetable oils, yield relatively small economic gains,
they offer significant environmental benefits. These inputs make up a smaller portion of the textile
and garment production process, leading to positive environmental impacts rather than strong
economic ones. Energy efficiency improvements also benefit Vietnam’s broader economy but have
a limited direct impact on textile and garment production unless energy efficiency improvements
are substantial, as these industries are not energy-intensive.
Labor productivity improvements, however, are key to boosting the performance of Vietnam’s
textile and garment sectors, which are labor-intensive and currently have low productivity.
Enhancing labor productivity would significantly benefit these sectors in Vietnam. However, this
growth can only be sustained for up to a decade, after which the industries face declining
competitiveness. Even though productivity in Vietnam’s textile and garment industries may grow
faster than in other countries, they struggle to compete globally after the mid-2030s. Similarly,
improvements in capital efficiency do not significantly alter the trend, as output levels begin to
decline after a decade.
The only factor that sustains growth in Vietnam’s textile and garment industries through 2045 is an
increase in TFP. However, to maintain output growth, particularly in the textile industry, TFP
growth must accelerate after a decade. Without at least a 1% annual increase in TFP, the textile
industry’s output will decline, whereas the garment industry can remain competitive and achieve
strong growth with just a 1% improvement per annum.
Overall, the findings indicate that Vietnam’s textile industry, in general, shows lower competitiveness
compared to its garment industry, which demonstrates greater resilience and faster output growth.
The garment industry experiences less severe declines and higher output increases, even under the
same productivity improvement rates. Furthermore, labor productivity is a crucial factor for the
short- and medium-term development of these sectors, but improvements alone are insufficient to
ensure global competitiveness, particularly after the mid-2030s. Similarly, capital productivity
does not provide long-term competitiveness. TFP, however, proves to be a more effective driver of
growth for Vietnam’s textile and garment industries. TFP will need to accelerate in the long term,
especially for the textile sector, to maintain global competitiveness. Finally, while green growth
indicators primarily benefit the environment, they also help these sectors meet the increasing
demand for environmentally friendly products in Western markets, but they offer low cost-
effectiveness in production processes.
78 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
The Vietnamese textile and garment industry stands at a critical juncture, shaped by an array of
megatrends that are redefining its landscape. Sustainability and circular fashion, geopolitical trade
shifts, digitalization and Industry 4.0, textile innovation, and the evolving dynamics of skilled
labor are significant forces driving change. As businesses and policymakers respond to these
megatrends, they must embrace innovative strategies to ensure long-term success and resilience.
Within this dynamic landscape, Sustainable Innovation (High Green – High Tech) emerges as
a critical pathway for businesses and policymakers. This scenario envisions a future marked by
substantial green growth and technological advancements, aimed at enhancing global
competitiveness through sustainability and efficiency. By leveraging these megatrends and aligning
with this direction, stakeholders can navigate the complexities of the industry while capitalizing on
emerging opportunities.
We propose specific recommendations tailored to address the challenges and opportunities within
the industry, focusing on actionable steps for both businesses and policymakers in each scenario.
5.1 Scenario 1: Slow and Steady (Low Green – Low Tech)
Under this scenario, the Vietnamese textile and garment industry focuses on incremental changes
with minimal advancements in sustainability and technology. Recommendations focus on
supporting the Vietnamese textile and garment industry in making incremental, low-risk
improvements in sustainability and operational efficiency, with minimal technological advancement.
By providing accessible financial incentives, targeted training and workforce development, and
foundational sustainability practices, these recommendations enable gradual adoption of eco-
friendly and productivity-enhancing measures. This approach helps policymakers, industry
associations, and firms build a foundation for future growth without imposing significant financial
burdens, thereby fostering a resilient, cohesive industry prepared for eventual shifts toward greener
and more efficient practices.
Financial incentives
•
Policymakers:
•	 Develop low-interest loans and small grants aimed at incremental improvements in energy
efficiency, such as LED lighting and basic HVAC upgrades. These financial supports ensure
that SMEs, which may lack substantial capital, can make small-scale improvements without
significant financial strain. This approach allows for gradual adaptation to eco-friendly
practices without the financial risks associated with larger overhauls.
•	 Metrics: Number of SMEs adopting energy-efficient upgrades, initial energy savings, and
reported reductions in utility costs.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Advocate for pooled funding and micro-grants that encourage small firms to share
resources for minor technological enhancements and green practices. Collective funding
initiatives can help SMEs lower individual costs and share access to basic sustainable
infrastructure. This will build industry-wide cohesion and allow for shared learning and
gradual scaling.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 79
RECOMMENDATIONS
•	 Metrics: Participation in pooled funding programs, the number of joint projects funded, and
improved efficiency metrics.
Training and workforce development
•
Policymakers:
•	 Partner with local vocational schools and training centers to create courses focused on
energy management and basic operational efficiency. Basic training programs provide
workers with foundational skills that yield immediate operational improvements without
heavy investments. This establishes a baseline for workforce readiness that can support
future transitions to more advanced practices.
•	 Metrics: Enrollment rates, course completion rates, and productivity improvements
post-training.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Conduct workshops on 5S and Lean basics to help firms streamline operations and reduce
waste. Introducing simple productivity-enhancing practices ensures that member firms can
make meaningful changes without major technological investments. This helps standardize
practices across the industry, improving overall efficiency.
•	 Metrics: Workshop attendance and participant feedback, measured adoption of Lean practices.
•
Firms:
•	 Implement basic Lean training programs for workers to increase process efficiency and
reduce waste. Lean practices offer quick wins in productivity with minimal initial investment,
allowing firms to see cost reductions. This will build operational discipline that prepares
firms for more significant future changes.
•	 Metrics: Reduction in waste and energy use, improvements in throughput.
Sustainability and green transition
•
Policymakers:
•	 Introduce and enforce minimal regulations focusing on energy management and basic waste
reduction. These regulations encourage adherence to simple sustainability practices without
burdening firms financially and lay the groundwork for future environmental policy
advancements.
•	 Metrics: Compliance rates, environmental impact assessments.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Focus on promoting basic awareness and sharing best practices for low-cost, incremental
sustainability efforts. This could involve organizing educational campaigns, disseminating
simple eco-friendly practices, and advocating for minimal compliance with environmental
regulations that do not overwhelm smaller firms. By promoting easy-to-implement practices
such as energy-saving tips and basic waste management, they can help firms adopt gradual
improvements without significant financial strain. This approach ensures that firms are
prepared for eventual regulatory shifts and market demands for greener practices.
•	 Metrics: Participation rates in educational initiatives, the number of firms adopting basic
green practices, and energy and resource use across the industry.
•
Firms:
•	 Start with simple, low-cost sustainability measures, such as waste segregation, water-saving
initiatives, and efficient chemical management. These practices are low-cost yet impactful,
aligning with the minimal risk, incremental approach. This approach reduces resource usage
gradually and improves overall environmental stewardship.
•	 Metrics: Decrease in resource use and waste production.
80 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
RECOMMENDATIONS
SMEs
Large manufacturers
Green
technologies
Implement low-cost, high-impact
technologies such as LED lighting and
energy-efficient HVAC systems.
Integrate energy management systems to
track and optimize resource use at a basic
level.
Productivity
frameworks
With limited resources and a low-tech
focus, foundational Lean and 5S offer
SMEs straightforward, low-cost methods
to improve workspace organization and
reduce waste without requiring
significant capital or tech upgrades.
Large manufacturers in the textile
industry have complex operations, with
multiple stages from raw material
handling to finished product inspection.
Large manufacturers can leverage Lean
principles for waste reduction and TQM
for consistent quality control. These
frameworks are manageable within a
low-tech environment but support the
higher complexity and scale of large
operations.
Short-term
strategy
Focus on incremental operational
changes that enhance energy efficiency
and productivity without significant
investments. This could include basic
energy audits and small-scale waste
reduction efforts.
Optimize existing production processes
through energy-saving measures and
Lean principles, focusing on minimizing
waste and improving workflow efficiency.
Long-term
strategy
Gradually build capacity for more
comprehensive Lean practices and set
aside resources for future green
technology upgrades as market
conditions evolve.
Plan for future investments in automation
and data analytics tools that can be
phased in as resources allow, preparing
for a shift towards a more high-tech
production model.
5.2 Scenario 2: Tech Driven (Low Green – High Tech)
The Tech Driven scenario prioritizes technological advancement with limited progress in green
initiatives. The recommendations focus on advancing the industry’s technological capabilities to
boost productivity while introducing basic eco-friendly practices. Financial incentives, training
initiatives, and basic green practices encourage firms to adopt high-tech solutions, such as
automation and AI, while integrating manageable sustainability practices to prepare for future
green growth. This approach helps Vietnam’s textile industry strengthen its competitive position in
technology-driven production.
Financial incentives
•
Policymakers:
•	 Provide tax incentives and low-interest loans specifically targeting the adoption of high-tech
solutions such as automation, AI-driven production tools, and robotics. These financial
incentives promote the rapid integration of productivity-enhancing technologies, supporting
global competitiveness, strengthening Vietnam’s positioning in technology-driven
production markets, and enhancing output and cost-efficiency.
•	 Metrics: Uptake of technology-focused financial incentives, productivity improvement
data, and operational cost savings.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Facilitate partnerships with tech providers to co-finance the integration of advanced
technologies. Collaborative financing lowers barriers to tech adoption, particularly for SMEs.
This will enhance industry-wide technological capabilities, fostering a competitive edge.
•	 Metrics: Participation in co-financing programs, the number of firms adopting new technologies.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 81
RECOMMENDATIONS
Training and workforce development
•
Policymakers:
•	 Fund training initiatives (such as those organized by industry associations) that prepare the
workforce for the use of advanced technologies such as AI and digital manufacturing tools.
Advanced training ensures that workers are ready to operate new tech, minimizing the
learning curve and optimizing productivity gains. This will help align the workforce’s
capabilities with the demands of a tech-focused industry.
•	 Metrics: Number of trained workers, improvements in productivity after training.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Offer capability building workshops and training programs that integrate best practices in
technology use and introduce firms to cost-effective tech solutions. Workshops bridge the
gap between available technology and its practical application and facilitate smoother
transitions for firms integrating new tech.
•	 Metrics: Number of workshops and training programs, workshop engagement rates.
•
Firms:
•	 Large manufacturers can implement their own employee training on the use of AI tools,
automation, and digital monitoring systems whereas SMEs can leverage training programs
and workshops organized by industry associations. Comprehensive training ensures
effective use of high-tech solutions, reducing errors, optimizing efficiency and positioning
firms as leaders in technological expertise.
•	 Metrics: Number of trained employees, increase in production efficiency, reductions in
downtime.
Sustainability and green transition
•
Policymakers:
•	 Introduce supplementary eco-friendly incentives that can be integrated with technology
adoption, such as energy-monitoring tools. This encourages firms to incorporate basic green
practices without shifting the primary focus from technological development, thereby laying
a foundation for future sustainability efforts while prioritizing tech-driven productivity.
•	 Metrics: Adoption rates of supplemental eco-friendly tools, reported energy use data.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Advocate for the integration of basic green practices alongside technological advancements.
This includes facilitating partnerships between technology providers and firms to incorporate
energy-efficient solutions and promoting optional eco-friendly add-ons like smart energy
monitoring tools. Highlighting the synergy between tech and basic eco-friendly measures
can help firms gradually integrate sustainability into their operations without disrupting
their main focus on productivity. It positions firms to make incremental eco-friendly changes
that align with their tech-driven goals, reducing future risks associated with abrupt regulatory
changes or shifts in market demand toward greener practices.
•	 Metrics: The number of firms that incorporate eco-friendly tools into their tech upgrades,
the energy efficiency improvements, and participation in industry-led workshops that focus
on sustainable tech integration.
•
Firms:
•	 Use smart energy monitoring systems and basic eco-friendly practices alongside high-tech
improvements. These small, strategic environmental steps help firms maintain a minimal
green footprint while focusing on tech-driven output. This also allows for incremental
environmental benefits without major shifts in business operations.
•	 Metrics: Reports on energy and resource use, emissions tracking.
82 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
RECOMMENDATIONS
SMEs
Large manufacturers
Green
technologies
Deploy basic energy monitoring tools to
identify inefficiencies, even if
sustainability is not the main focus.
Use smart sensors and AI-based
production monitoring to optimize
productivity without significant green
investments initially.
Productivity
frameworks
Six Sigma helps SMEs focus on quality and
efficiency by reducing defects and
standardizing processes, making it a
suitable framework in a tech-driven
environment where consistent quality is
essential for productivity gains.
Large manufacturers benefit from TPM,
especially with a tech focus, as it ensures
equipment reliability and uptime,
maximizing productivity from investments
in automation, AI, and other advanced
technologies. TPM also integrates well
with high-tech tools like IoT for predictive
maintenance, helping large firms reduce
downtime and optimize efficiency.
Short-term
strategy
Adopt scalable technologies like semi-
automated machinery to improve
productivity while keeping costs
manageable. Focus on training staff to
handle new tech and maintain basic
sustainability efforts.
Invest heavily in automation and robotics
to boost productivity. Train teams on the
use of advanced production technologies
to maintain an edge in efficiency.
Long-term
strategy
Expand automation capabilities over time,
integrating more sophisticated AI-driven
tools as financial resources and expertise
grow. Begin planning for more substantial
green initiatives that align with
technological upgrades.
Gradually integrate more comprehensive
green practices as regulatory and market
pressures increase, aiming for a dual focus
on efficiency and environmental
responsibility.
5.3 Scenario 3: Green Driven (High Green – Low Tech)
In the Green Driven scenario, the industry prioritizes sustainability over technological progress.
The recommendations focus on establishing robust sustainability practices with basic accessible,
supportive technologies. Through targeted financial support, sustainability training, and flexible
regulatory frameworks, the industry is encouraged to prioritize green initiatives and low-tech
solutions that enhance environmental stewardship. This approach positions the industry as a leader
in sustainable practices, meeting eco-conscious market demands and building a foundation for
gradual tech adoption.
Financial incentives
•
Policymakers:
•	 Create grants and tax breaks exclusively for sustainability-focused initiatives, such as
investments in water recycling systems and sustainable raw materials. Additionally,
policymakers can include incentives for eco-supportive technologies, such as energy-
efficient equipment and systems that can optimize resource use without necessarily being
highly advanced. This approach ensures that while the primary focus is on sustainability,
firms are still supported in adopting accessible technologies that enhance green practices.
This will strengthen the industry’s reputation and market positioning as a green leader.
•	 Metrics: Number of applications for green grants, compliance with international green
standards and certifications.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 83
RECOMMENDATIONS
•
Industry associations:
•	 Promote funding for shared sustainable infrastructure projects such as recycling facilities
while encouraging the use of some tech tools that support these efforts (e.g., water-efficient
recycling technologies and eco-monitoring devices). This can reduce the financial burden
on individual firms and facilitate collective resource management, thereby enhancing
sustainability efforts industry-wide while supporting smaller firms.
•	 Metrics: Number of funded projects and participation in shared infrastructure use.
Training and workforce development
•
Policymakers:
•	 Sponsor training programs on sustainability practices, eco-certification processes, and the
use of simple, eco-friendly technologies, such as energy-efficient systems and resource
management software, in order to equip workers with the knowledge needed to implement
eco-friendly measures and operate supportive technologies effectively. This will ensure a
skilled workforce capable of maintaining environmental standards.
•	 Metrics: Certifications in green practices, feedback on training efficacy.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Collaborate with environmental NGOs to develop and disseminate training modules related
to sustainability and the application of basic eco-tech solutions. This will bring credibility
and depth to training programs through expert partnerships and as a result, build strong,
eco-focused competencies within the industry.
•	 Metrics: Number of workshops and training, training completion rates, and implementation
of sustainable practices.
•
Firms:
•	 Implement training focused on waste reduction, resource management and the operation of
basic technological systems that support sustainable practices (e.g., water-saving devices
and eco-monitoring sensors). In-house training ensures that practices align with company-
specific needs. These targeted training programs can reduce long-term operational costs
through improved resource use.
•	 Metrics: Employee awareness and training completion rates.
Sustainability and green transition
•
Policymakers:
•	 Mandate sustainability targets with a flexible implementation timeline and incorporate
guidelines for the adoption of supportive, low-tech innovations. This ensures that firms
gradually align with new standards while integrating accessible technological solutions that
aid sustainability. Regulatory pressure combined with tech guidelines helps maintain
compliance without straining resources, fostering gradual industry-wide improvements.
This will strengthen the country’s environmental credentials on the global stage and prepare
the industry for potential future integration of higher-level technology.
•	 Metrics: Compliance rates with new sustainability regulations, adoption rates of basic tech
solutions, and reductions in emissions.
•
Firms:
•	 Focus on adopting eco-friendly processes, such as bio-based dyes and improved water
management systems, while integrating low-tech, supportive solutions like energy-efficient
production equipment and real-time eco-monitoring systems. By combining green initiatives
with practical tech tools, firms can align production with eco-conscious market trends and
consumer expectations. This will position firms competitively in eco-focused markets and 84 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
RECOMMENDATIONS
prepare them for gradual technological enhancement.
•	 Metrics: Usage of sustainable materials, water and energy consumption reports, and
integration of low-tech eco-supportive systems.
SMEs
Large manufacturers
Green
technologies
Start with cost-effective eco-friendly
measures such as water recycling systems
and eco-conscious raw materials.
Adopt more comprehensive green
practices, such as using bio-based
chemicals and improving wastewater
management.
Productivity
frameworks
Lean principles focus on reducing waste
and improving process efficiency, which
aligns with sustainability goals in a
low-tech context. For SMEs, Lean helps
them use resources efficiently, adopting
small but impactful green practices
without large-scale technological
investments.
Six Sigma’s focus on process improvement
and waste reduction complements the
green objectives in this scenario. Large
firms can use Six Sigma to systematically
reduce their environmental impact by
identifying inefficiencies, minimizing
resource use, and enhancing quality
control in sustainable practices.
Short-term
strategy
Prioritize obtaining certifications like
OEKO-TEX or GOTS that highlight
sustainable practices. Implement small-
scale green technologies that reduce
resource consumption.
Shift towards sustainable materials and
practices that meet global eco-conscious
standards. Begin training staff in green
protocols and efficient material use.
Long-term
strategy
Invest in partnerships with NGOs or
government programs that provide
resources and knowledge for expanding
sustainable practices while gradually
incorporating more sustainable
technological solutions.
Plan for investment in larger sustainability
initiatives, such as closed-loop production
models and collaborations with green
technology providers, to maintain
competitive advantage in eco-conscious
markets.
5.4 Scenario 4: Sustainable Innovation (High Green – High Tech)
The Sustainable Innovation scenario represents the optimal path, integrating high levels of both
sustainability and technological advancement. The recommendations focus on achieving a balanced
integration of advanced sustainability and high-tech innovation to position the industry as a global
leader. Comprehensive financial programs, cross-functional training, and stringent green standards
drive firms to adopt both eco-friendly and technologically advanced solutions. This dual-focus
strategy enhances Vietnam’s global competitiveness.
Financial incentives
•
Policymakers:
•	 Implement comprehensive financial programs combining grants, tax credits, and low-
interest loans to support investments in advanced green technologies, such as digital twins
and renewable energy installations. These initiatives encourage firms to adopt an integrated
approach to sustainability and technology, balancing both for optimal growth. This will
position Vietnam as a global leader in sustainable, tech-driven textile production.
•	 Metrics: Adoption rate of green-tech solutions, overall reductions in carbon emissions.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Advocate for green bonds and investment partnerships that fund large-scale eco-tech
projects. This will promote industry-wide access to funding, facilitating substantial
advancements in sustainability and technology, thereby supporting collective industry NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 85
RECOMMENDATIONS
growth and strengthening competitiveness.
•	 Metrics: Levels of secured funding, number of partnerships formed.
Training and workforce development
•
Policymakers:
•	 Support training programs that incorporate digital literacy, AI use, and sustainable
manufacturing techniques. It is vital to ensure the workforce is prepared for advanced,
integrated tech and green solutions in order to build a skilled, adaptable labor pool capable
of handling complex, modern production environments.
•	 Metrics: Certification rates, productivity improvements post-training.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Partner with universities to offer continuous learning opportunities for high-tech and
sustainability skills. This can bridge the gap between academic knowledge and practical
industry needs. The purpose is to sustain innovation through a well-trained workforce.
•	 Metrics: Number of graduates, placement in advanced roles.
•
Firms:
•	 Invest in cross-functional training that merges technological proficiency with eco-friendly
practices. Firms need to prepare teams to operate and innovate within a dual-focus production
model which enhances both operational efficiency and environmental stewardship simultaneously.
•	 Metrics: Increased workforce adaptability, number of trained employees.
Sustainability and green transition
•
Policymakers:
•	 Enforce compliance with stringent international sustainability standards and offer grants for
eco-friendly R&D projects in order to strengthen the industry’s global reputation and ensure
long-term market access. This will position Vietnam as a leader in sustainable innovation.
•	 Metrics: Number of certified green firms, compliance rates.
•
Industry associations:
•	 Establish best practice sharing platforms to encourage the adoption of combined green and
tech strategies. Fostering an environment of knowledge-sharing and collaborative growth
can drive continuous industry-wide improvement.
•	 Metrics: Industry-wide green technology adoption and participation rates in knowledge
sharing platforms.
•
Firms:
•	 To remain competitive in the global market, Vietnamese textile businesses must focus on
increasing TFP by embracing innovation and technological advancement. Investment in
automation, digital technologies, and advanced production systems can drive operational
efficiency. With rising labor costs and supply chain complexities, improving productivity is
essential for the Vietnamese textile sector.
•	 Large manufacturers should lead the industry by adopting high-tech, sustainable processes
such as zero-waste production and renewable energy integration, thereby setting a standard
for industry peers and encouraging widespread adoption. SMEs can leverage the support of
policymakers and industry associations to participate in larger value chains and enhance
their capability in terms of green tech adoption and implementation. This will increase
competitiveness by meeting advanced environmental expectations.
•	 Metrics: Waste reduction, energy efficiency reports, sustainable material usage/production,
and market expansion through eco-conscious branding.
86 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
RECOMMENDATIONS
SMEs
Large manufacturers
Green
technologies
Use modular renewable energy solutions,
such as solar panels, which can be scaled
over time. Implement energy-efficient
machinery with IoT capabilities for
real-time monitoring.
Integrate digital twins and comprehensive
renewable energy sources (e.g., large-
scale solar or wind energy).
Productivity
frameworks
Combining Lean and Six Sigma allows
SMEs to enhance both efficiency and
quality in a dual-focus environment. Lean
provides a foundation of efficiency, while
Six Sigma improves process precision and
control. Together, they help SMEs meet
both high-tech and high-green goals
incrementally.
TPM combined with Industry 4.0 offers
large manufacturers predictive
maintenance and operational efficiency,
which is essential in a high-tech
environment focused on sustainability.
This combination maximizes uptime and
productivity while supporting green
objectives by reducing waste and energy
use. Large firms can leverage this
approach for fully automated, sustainable
production systems.
Short-term
strategy
Leverage government grants and
partnerships for initial investments in both
green and tech advancements. Focus on
training teams to adapt to new tech and
sustainable methods simultaneously.
Implement advanced training programs
for workforce development in digital
manufacturing and green technology.
Adopt AI-driven quality control to
maximize efficiency while maintaining
sustainability.
Long-term
strategy
Invest in building capabilities for adopting
more complex systems such as AI-driven
production optimization and
comprehensive waste management
solutions. Actively explore opportunities
to integrate into higher-value segments of
the textile and garment supply chain.
Develop fully automated, smart
production lines that integrate
sustainability at every stage. Work on
zero-waste production models and
collaborate with international partners to
stay at the forefront of sustainable
innovation.
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 87
6. CONCLUSIONS
Vietnam’s textile and garment industry is at a pivotal moment, with both significant opportunities
and challenges shaping its future. As one of the country’s most vital economic sectors, the industry
has historically driven growth, provided employment, and bolstered export revenues. However, the
landscape is rapidly changing due to advancements in technology, shifting global market demands,
and the rising importance of sustainability. The industry faces a critical shortage of skilled labor, a
challenge that is further complicated by the demands of Industry 4.0. To remain competitive,
Vietnam must invest heavily in training and upskilling its workforce, ensuring that it can meet the
needs of a technology-driven future. Additionally, the industry must embrace automation,
digitalization, and sustainable practices to align with global trends and consumer preferences.
This report has outlined several possible future scenarios for the industry, ranging from highly
favorable outcomes, where Vietnam becomes a leader in advanced manufacturing and sustainability,
to more challenging situations where the failure to adapt results in a loss of competitiveness. These
scenarios underscore the importance of strategic decision-making and proactive measures to secure
the industry’s future. The recommendations provided emphasize the need for investment in human
capital, technological innovation, and sustainable practices. By focusing on these areas, Vietnam’s
textile and garment industry can not only overcome current challenges but also seize new
opportunities, positioning itself as a global leader in the sector.
In conclusion, the path forward for Vietnam’s textile and garment industry requires a balanced
approach that combines tradition with innovation. By addressing the immediate challenges and
leveraging emerging opportunities, the industry can continue to thrive and contribute significantly
to Vietnam’s economic development, while also meeting the evolving demands of the global market.
88 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
REFERENCES
References
Aaguiar, A., Chepeliev, M., Corong, E. L., Mcdougall, R. & Van Der Mensbrugghe, D. (2019). The
GTAP data base: version 10. Journal of global economic analysis, 4, 1-27.
Asia Development Bank. (2021). Reaping the benefits of industry 4.0 through skills development
in high-growth industries in Southeast Asia.
Asia Development Bank. (2023). Harnessing the fourth industrial revolution through skills
development in high-growth industries in Central and West Asia.
Balchin, N. (2023, November 17). How to make textile and garment production more sustainable.
World Economic Forum. Retrieved from https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2023/11/textile-
garment-industry-sustainability-policy-measures/
Better Work Vietnam. (2023). Vietnam Annual Report 2023. Better Work Vietnam. Retrieved from
https://betterwork.org/wp-content/uploads/BWV_AnnualReport_2023_ENG_v8.pdf
Boston Consulting Group (2023, October 25). Demand for Sustainable Raw Materials Could Exceed
Supply by as Much as 133 Million Tons by 2030. Boston Consulting Group. Retrieved from
https://www.bcg.com/press/25october2023-sustainable-raw-materials-133-million-tons-2030
Brennan, S., Gonzalez, R. B., Puzniak-Holford, M., Kilsby, R., & Subramoni, A. (2024, February
18). Sustainability regulation outlook 2024. Deloitte. Retrieved from https://www2.deloitte.
com/xe/en/insights/environmental-social-governance/sustainability-regulation-outlook.html
Bureau Veritas (2024, April 23). Bureau Veritas successfully supported Vietnam’s first garment
factory to achieve LEED O&M Gold. Bureau Veritas. Retrieved from https://www.
bureauveritas.vn/en/newsroom/bureau-veritas-successfully-supported-vietnams-first-garment-
factory-achieve-leed-om-gold
Cai, Y., Newth, D., Finnigan, J. & Gunasekera, D. (2015). A hybrid energy-economy model for
global integrated assessment of climate change, carbon mitigation and energy transformation.
Applied Energy, 148, 381-395.
Cascale. (2023, November 2). Sustainable Apparel Coalition Launches Higg FEM 4.0. Cascale.
Retrieved from https://cascale.org/resources/press-news/press-releases/sustainable-apparel-
coalition-launches-higg-fem-4-0/
CICC Research (2024). Textiles and Apparel—Expanding Production Bases Overseas While
Moving Up the Industry Chain. In The Reshaping of China’s Industry Chains (pp. 331-350).
Singapore: Springer Nature Singapore.
Cugno, M., Castagnoli, R., & Büchi, G. (2021). Openness to Industry 4.0 and performance: The
impact of barriers and incentives. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 168, 120756.
Danish Energy Agency. (2022). Vietnamese industrial potential for energy emission reductions.
Danish Energy Agency. Retrieved from https://ens.dk/sites/ens.dk/files/Globalcooperation/
vietnamese_industrial_potential_for_energy_emission_reductions_2022.05.20.pdf
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 89
REFERENCES
Deepthi, B., & Bansal, V. (2024). Industry 4.0 in textile and apparel industry: A systematic literature
review and bibliometric analysis of global research trends. Vision, 28(2), 157-170.
Deloitte. (2024). Connecting with meaning Hyper-personalizing the customer experience using
data, analytics, and AI. Deloitte. Retrieved from https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/
Deloitte/ca/Documents/deloitte-analytics/ca-en-omnia-ai-marketing-pov-fin-jun24-aoda.pdf
Derrick, M. (2024, March 20). How Nike is Increasing Reliability on Renewable Energy. Energy
Digital. Retrieved from https://energydigital.com/articles/how-nike-is-increasing-reliability-
on-renewable-energy
Ecotextile (2024, May 15). SBTi backs Levi’s 2050 net zero target. Ecotextile. Retrieved from
https://www.ecotextile.com/2024051532043/fashion-retail-news/sbti-backs-levi-s-2050-
net-zero-target.html
El Achkar Hilal, S., Andersson, S., Hyunh, P., Ritchotte, J. & Williams, D. (2022). Employment,
wages and productivity trends in the Asian garment sector: Data and policy insights for the
future of work. International Labour Organization.
EY (2023). 2024 Geostrategic Outlook How to thrive amid ongoing geopolitical complexity. EY.
Retrieved from https://www.ey.com/content/dam/ey-unified-site/ey-com/en-gl/insights/
geostrategy/documents/ey-2024-geostrategic-outlook-report.pdf
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (2024). Global Supply Chain Pressure Index (GSCPI). Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. Retrieved from https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/
gscpi#/interactive
Fibre2Fashion (2024). Shifting Paradigms in Textile and Apparel Trade: The Asia-Pacific
Dominance and Global Trade Dynamics. Fibre2Fashion. Retrieved from https://www.
fiber2fashion.com/industry-article/9976/shifting-paradigms-in-textile-and-apparel-trade-
the-asia-pacific-dominance-and-global-trade-dynamics
Fox, R., Goldrick, M., & Whittington, K. (2018). Geek meets chic: Four actions to jump-start
advanced analytics in apparel. McKinsey & Company. Retrieved from https://www.mckinsey.
com/industries/retail/our-insights/geek-meets-chic-four-actions-to-jump-start-advanced-
analytics-in-apparel
Fricko, O., Havlik, P., Rogelj, J., Klimont, Z., Gusti, M., Johnson, N., Kolp, P., Strubegger, M.,
Valin, H. & Amann, M. (2017). The marker quantification of the Shared Socioeconomic
Pathway 2: A middle-of-the-road scenario for the 21st century. Global Environmental
Change, 42, 251-267.
General Statistics Office (2012-2022). Data retrieved from GSO business survey. General Statistics
Office.
Gilbert, M., Lang, N., Mavropoulos, G., & McAdoo, M. (2023). Protectionism, Pandemic, War,
and the Future of Trade. Retrieved from Boston Consulting Group: https://www.bcg.com/
publications/2023/protectionism-pandemic-war-and-future-of-trade
90 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
REFERENCES
Global Fashion Agenda (2024). Establishing a vision roadmap for circular fashion in Vietnam.
Global Fashion Agenda. Retrieved from https://globalfashionagenda.org/wp-content/
uploads/2024/07/240627-WG4-Establishing-a-Vision-Roadmap-for-Circular-Fashion-in-
Vietnam.pdf
Goto, K. (2014). Vietnam: Upgrading from the export to the domestic market. In T. Fukunishi & T.
Yamagata (Eds.), The garment industry in low-income countries: An entry point of
industrialization. Palgrave Macmillan.
Government of Ho Chi Minh City (2022). Ngành dệt may có thể giảm 1 tỷ USD chi phí nếu dùng năng
lượng tái tạo [The textile industry could save 1 billion USD in costs if using renewable energy].
Government of Ho Chi Minh City. Retrieved from https://tphcm.chinhphu.vn/nganh-det-may-
co-the-giam-1-ty-usd-chi-phi-neu-dung-nang-luong-tai-tao-101220320005104046.htm
Government of Vietnam (2022). National green growth strategy for 2021-2030, vision towards
2050. Government of Vietnam. Retrieved from https://en.baochinhphu.vn/national-green-
growth-strategy-for-2021-2030-vision-towards-2050-11142515.htm
Government of Vietnam (2022). Quyết định 1643/QĐ-TTg 2022 về Chiến lược phát triển ngành
Dệt May và Da Giày Việt Nam đến năm 2030. Thư Viện Pháp Luật. Government of Vietnam.
Retrieved from https://thuvienphapluat.vn/van-ban/Thuong-mai/Quyet-dinh-1643-QD-TTg-
2022-Chien-luoc-phat-trien-nganh-Det-May-va-Da-Giay-Viet-Nam-den-2030-548362.aspx
Greenyarn (2024). Coffee Yarn. Greenyarn. Retrieved from https://greenyarn.vn/en/san-pham/
coffee-yarn/
Hai Linh. (2023, July 18). Khoảng 50% doanh nghiệp dệt may đã thực hiện xanh hóa sản xuất.
Vietnam Economic News. Retrieved from https://congthuong.vn/khoang-50-doanh-nghiep-
det-may-da-thuc-hien-xanh-hoa-san-xuat-262675.html
Hai Yen (2022). Garment and textiles going green in push to hit turnover goals. Hai Yen. Retrieved
from Vietnam Investment Review: Garment and textiles going green in push to hit turnover goals.
Hatfield-Dodds, S., Schandl, H., Newth, D., Obersteiner, M., Cai, Y., Baynes, T., West, J. & Havlik,
P. (2017). Assessing global resource use and greenhouse emissions to 2050, with ambitious
resource efficiency and climate mitigation policies. Journal of Cleaner Production, 144,
403-414.
Hertel, T. W. (1997). Global trade analysis: modeling and applications, Cambridge university press.
HM Group (2022) Sustainability Disclosure 2022. HM Group. Retrieved from chrome-extension://
efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://hmgroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/HM-
Group-Sustainability-Disclosure-2022.pdf
Hoang Anh (2024). Enhancing the value of textiles and garments Positioning the value in the
chain. Nhan Dan. Retrieved from https://en.nhandan.vn/positioning-the-value-in-the-chain-
post132682.html
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 91
REFERENCES
Hossain, M. T., Shahid, M. A., Limon, M. G. M., Hossain, I., & Mahmud, N. (2024). Techniques,
applications, and challenges in textiles for sustainable future. Journal of Open Innovation:
Technology, Market, and Complexity, 100230.
IBM (2024). Industry 4.0. IBM. Retrieved from https://www.ibm.com/topics/industry-4-0
IEA (2021). Net Zero by (2050): A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector, 3rd and 4th Editions
(May and October 2021). International Energy Agency (IEA), Paris.
Institute of Workers and Trade Unions. (2021). The consequences of low wages: a study on fashion
suppliers in Vietnam.
International Labour Organization. (2022). Sustainable development through the global garment industry:
A framework for action in Vietnam. ILO. Retrieved from https://www.ilo.org/sites/default/files/
wcmsp5/groups/public/@asia/@ro-bangkok/documents/publication/wcms_848624.pdf
International Labour Organization. (2022). The future of work in textiles, clothing, leather, and
footwear in Vietnam: Sectoral background paper. ILO. Retrieved from https://www.ilo.org/
sites/default/files/wcmsp5/groups/public/@asia/@ro-bangkok/documents/publication/
wcms_848624.pdf
Jensen, B., Stoneburner, M., Martinez-Pardo, C., Wilkinson, J., Khodabocus, H., Durbiano, L., . . .
Vargas-Gonzalez, M. (2023, October 25). Sustainable Raw Materials Will Drive Profitability
for Fashion and Apparel Brands. Boston Consulting Group. Retrieved from https://www.
bcg.com/publications/2023/driving-profitability-with-raw-materials-in-fashion
Jin, B. E., & Shin, D. C. (2021). The power of 4th industrial revolution in the fashion industry:
what, why, and how has the industry changed?. Fashion and Textiles, 8(1), 31.
Kharrati, K. (2024). Global Sustainable Fashion Market Size Likely to Expand at a CAGR of
22.9% By 2033. Custom Market Insights. Retrieved from https://www.custommarketinsights.
com/press-releases/sustainable-fashion-market-size/
Leal Filho, W., Dinis, M. A. P., Liakh, O., Paço, A., Dennis, K., Shollo, F., & Sidsaph, H. (2024).
Reducing the carbon footprint of the textile sector: an overview of impacts and solutions.
Textile Research Journal, 00405175241236971.
LONGi Green Energy Technology Co., Ltd. (2022). LONGi SEV solar PV project for Vietnam:
Tan De. LONGi Green Energy Technology Co., Lt.d Retrieved from https://www.longi.com/
en/news/longi-sev-solar-pv-project-for-vietnam-tan-de/
Lu, Y., Schandl, H., Wang, H. & Zhu, J. (2024). China’s pathway towards a net zero and circular
economy: A model-based scenario analysis. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 204,
107514.
Magnus, K.-H., Ibáñez, P., Scalco, A., & Hügl, J. (2024, May 24). Reimagining the apparel value
chain amid volatility. McKinsey & Company. Retrieved from https://www.mckinsey.com/
industries/retail/our-insights/reimagining-the-apparel-value-chain-amid-volatility
92 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
REFERENCES
Maile, F., & Staritz, C. (2024, February 28). Towards shorter supply chains? Understanding shifts
in the global apparel industry. Centre for Business and Development Studies. Retrieved
from https://cbds.cbs.dk/towards-shorter-supply-chains-understanding-shifts-in-the-global-
apparel-industry/
Majumdar, A., Garg, H., & Jain, R. (2021). Managing the barriers of Industry 4.0 adoption and
implementation in textile and clothing industry: Interpretive structural model and triple helix
framework. Computers in Industry, 125, 103372.
Market Research Future (2024). Global Sustainable Fabrics Market Overview Source: https://
www.marketresearchfuture.com/reports/sustainable-fabrics-market-7435. Market Research
Future. Retrieved from https://www.marketresearchfuture.com/reports/sustainable-fabrics-
market-7435
Marr, B. (2024, March 8). How Stitch Fix Is Using Generative AI To Help Us Dress Better. Forbes.
Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2024/03/08/how-stitch-fix-is-
using-generative-ai-to-help-us-dress-better/
Material Innovation Innitiative. (2024). 2023 State Of The Industry Report: Next-Gen Materials.
McKinsey & Company (2022, August 17). What are Industry 4.0, the Fourth Industrial Revolution,
and 4IR?. McKinsey & Company. Retrieved from https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-
insights/mckinsey-explainers/what-are-industry-4-0-the-fourth-industrial-revolution-and-4ir
McKinsey & Company (2022, July 14). Scaling textile recycling in Europe—turning waste into
value. McKinsey & Company. Retrieved from https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/retail/
our-insights/scaling-textile-recycling-in-europe-turning-waste-into-value
McKinsey & Company (2023, May 31). Redesigning apparel manufacturing in Asia: A pattern for
resilience. McKinsey & Company. Retrieved from https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/
retail/our-insights/redesigning-apparel-manufacturing-in-asia-a-pattern-for-resilience
McKinsey Global Institute (2018). Skill shift - Automation and the future of workforce. McKinsey
Global Institute.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs (2022, December 12). What are the requirements for apparel to enter
the European market? Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved from https://www.cbi.eu/
market-information/apparel/buyer-requirements
Monaghan, J. (2023, September 1). The Global Journey To Nearshoring: A New Dawn In Supply Chains.
Forbes. Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/councils/forbesbusinesscouncil/2023/09/01/the-
global-journey-to-nearshoring-a-new-dawn-in-supply-chains/
Nguyen, T. T., & Tran, T. H. (2023). Job satisfaction and organizational commitment on employee
turnover intention: A case study of the textile and garment industry in Vietnam. Journal of
Textile Science & Engineering, 13(1). https://doi.org/10.4172/2165-8064.10004745
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 93
REFERENCES
Nong, D., Schandl, H., Lu, Y. & Verikios, G. (2023). Resource efficiency and climate change
policies to support West Asia’s move towards sustainability: A computable general
equilibrium analysis of material flows. Journal of Cleaner Production, 421, 138458.
Observatory of Economic Complexity (2024). Textile in Vietnam. Observatory of Economic
Complexity. Retrieved from https://oec.world/en/profile/bilateral-product/textiles/reporter/
vnm?bilateralViewSelector=Geomap
OEC (2024). Textiles in Vietnam. OEC. Retrieved from https://oec.world/en/profile/bilateral-
product/textiles/reporter/vnm
Oxfam & CNCĐ Institute. (2021). Migrant workers in industrial zones: Access to social services
and living conditions. Oxfam Vietnam and CNCĐ Institute.
Pant, H. (2007). GTEM: global trade and environment model. Australian Bureau of Agricultural
and Resource Economics, Canberra.
Phuong Thao (2021, November 1). Nhiều thách thức cho ngành dệt may Việt Nam trong cuộc cách
mạng công nghiệp 4.0. Ministry of Industry and Trade of Vietnam. Retrieved from https://
moit.gov.vn/tin-tuc/phat-trien-cong-nghiep/nhieu-thach-thuc-cho-nganh-det-may-viet-nam-
trong-cuoc-cach-mang-cong-nghiep-4.0.html
Quynh Trang (2023). 50 per cent of textile firms adopt sustainable production. Vietnam Investment
Review. Retrieved from https://vir.com.vn/50-per-cent-of-textile-firms-adopt-sustainable-
production-103599.html
Rabe, T. & Wiggins, J. (2024, July 10). Shipping crises ‘spanner in works’ for inflation fight.
Financial Review. Retrieved from https://www.afr.com/companies/retail/shipping-crises-
spanner-in-works-for-inflation-fight-20240709-p5js7a
Research and Markets. (2024). Asia-Pacific Textile - Market Share Analysis, Industry Trends &
Statistics, Growth Forecasts (2024 - 2029). Retrieved from https://www.researchandmarkets.
com/report/asia-pacific-textiles-market?srsltid=AfmBOorV0VFh401Mg0H0tpR3vzhPMYc
BbKsOHo4-Qd7Vr_P2MhN35NvC
Saha, P., Talapatra, S., Belal, H. M., Jackson, V., Mason, A., & Durowoju, O. (2023). Examining
the viability of lean production practices in the Industry 4.0 era: an empirical evidence based
on B2B garment manufacturing sector. Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, 38(12),
2694-2712.
Schroders. (n.d.). Climate and net zero frameworks: know your CDPs from your TCFDs. Schroders.
Retrieved from https://www.schroders.com/en-us/us/individual/insights/climate-and-net-
zero-frameworks-know-your-cdps-from-your-tcfds/
Sharma, A., Jit Singh, B., & Sehgal, R. (2023, March). Strategic Integration of Lean and Six Sigma
in Era of Industry 4.0: Navigating the Confluence of Barriers and Enablers. In International
Conference on Production and Industrial Engineering (pp. 37-50). Singapore: Springer
Nature Singapore.
94 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
REFERENCES
Shi, J., Huang, F., Jia, F., Yang, Z., & Rui, M. (2023). Mass customization: The role of consumer
preference measurement, manufacturing flexibility and customer participation. Asia Pacific
Journal of Marketing and Logistics, 35(6), 1366-1382.
Song, J., White, O., Birsha, M., & Woetz, L. (2024, January 17). Geopolitics and the geometry of
global trade. Retrieved from McKinsey & Company: https://www.mckinsey.com/mgi/our-
research/geopolitics-and-the-geometry-of-global-trade
Statista (2023). Export value of textiles and garments from Vietnam from 2012 to 2022. Statista. Retrieved
from https://www.statista.com/statistics/986023/vietnam-export-value-textiles-garments/
Technavio (2023). Automation Market in Textile industry. Retrieved from https://www.technavio.
com/report/automation-market-in-textile-industry-analysis
Technavio (2024). Custom Apparel Market Analysis APAC, North America, Europe, Middle East
and Africa, South America - US, China, UK, Germany, India - Size and Forecast 2024-2028.
Retrieved from https://www.technavio.com/report/custom-apparel-market-industry-analysis
Textile Exchange (2024). Materials Market Report 2024. Textile Exchange.
Textile Exchange (2024). The Future of Synthetics. Textile Exchange. Retrieved from https://
textileexchange.org/app/uploads/2024/04/The-Future-of-Synthetics.pdf
Thanh Thuy (2024, April 29). Dệt may Việt Nam gia tăng lợi thế cạnh tranh bằng chiếu sáng xanh.
Retrieved from VnEconomy: https://vneconomy.vn/det-may-viet-nam-gia-tang-loi-the-
canh-tranh-bang-chieu-sang-xanh.htm
TNG Investment and Trading JSC. (2019). Energy efficiency initiatives and achievements. TNG
Investment and Trading JSC.
Tuoi Tre News. (2024). Businesses in Vietnam boost production of recycled goods. Tuoi Tre News.
Retrieved from https://tuoitrenews.vn/news/business/20240525/businesses-in-vietnam-
boost-production-of-recycled-goods/79988.html
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. (n.d.). Fashion charter. United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change https://unfccc.int/climate-action/sectoral-
engagement-for-climate-action/fashion-charter
Van Ta, C., Jin, B. E., & Cho, H. J. (2024). Examining the relationship between firm characteristics
and Industry 4.0 technology adoption in Vietnam’s apparel industry. International Journal of
Fashion Design, Technology and Education, 1-16.
VEECOM. (2021). Thực trạng tiêu thụ năng lượng trong ngành dệt may ở Việt Nam và tiềm năng
giải pháp thúc đẩy sử dụng năng lượng tiết kiệm và hiệu quả [Current situation of energy
consumption in the textile industry in Vietnam and potential solutions to promote energy-
saving and efficiency]. Retrieved from https://veecom.vn/a/khcn18-thuc-trang-tieu-thu-
nang-luong-trong-nganh-det-may-o-viet-nam-va-tiem-nang-giai-phap-thuc-day-su-dung-
nang-luong-tiet-kiem-va-hieu
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 95
REFERENCES
Viet Nam News (2022). Việt Nam to reduce environmental impact of textile and garment industry
by 2030. Viet Nam News. Retrieved from https://vietnamnews.vn/economy/1400338/viet-
nam-to-reduce-environmental-impact-of-textile-and-garment-industry-by-2030.html
Viet Nam News (2023). Faslink introduces fashion collection with sustainable materials, innovative
technology. Viet Nam News. Retrieved from https://vietnamnews.vn/life-style/1546106/
faslink-introduces-fashion-collection-with-sustainable-materials-innovative-technology.html
Vietnam Investment Review (2018). Garment firms should meet workers’ needs. Vietnam
Investment Review. Retrieved from http://vir.com.vn/garment-firms-should-meet-workers-
needs-58365.html
Vietnam Textile & Apparel Association (2024, April 13). Chuyển đổi số: Sự lựa chọn tối ưu cho
doanh nghiệp dệt may Việt Nam. Vietnam Textile & Apparel Association. Retrieved from
http://www.vietnamtextile.org.vn/chuyen-doi-so-su-lua-chon-toi-uu-cho-doanh-nghiep-det-
may-viet-nam_p1_1-1_2-1_3-597_4-7101_9-2_11-10_12-96_13-979.html
Vietnam Textile and Apparel Association. (2022). Green materials - a sustainable step for Vietnam’s
textile industry.
Vinatex (2024). One-stop for sustainable textile & green fashion, Vinatex. Retrieved from https://
vinatex.com/.
W.ELL Fabric. (2024). 100% Bamboo. W.ELL Fabric. Retrieved from https://wellfabric.com/
product-category/bamboo-fabric-wholesale/
WTO Center, (2024). Vietnamese goods confidently conquer domestic market.  WTO Center
Retrieved from https://wtocenter.vn/an-pham/23665-vietnamese-goods-confidently-conquer-
domestic-market
WWF Vietnam. (2022). Guidelines for Greening the Textile Sector in Viet Nam. WWF Vietnam.
WWF. (2022). Feasibility Study Potential Green Credit Line For The Garment And Textile Sector
In Viet Nam.
Zhang, S., Vincent, K., Dank, M., Cole, K., Burke, C., Hughes, A., . . . Steward, S. (2021). Prevalence
of Forced Labor in Vietnam’s Apparel Industry. Global Fund to End Modern Slavery.
96 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
Appendix 1: Methodology for interviews
The interview process was designed to gather insights into the megatrends influencing Vietnam’s
textile and garment industry.  The interviews followed an open-ended, conversational format.
While a set of core questions was prepared, the discussions allowed flexibility for participants to
explore topics in more depth. Each interview lasted approximately 45 - 60 minutes. Participants
were asked for consent to record the conversation, with all information treated confidentially. No
personal attributions were made in the final report, ensuring that all responses were anonymized.
Nine interviews were conducted with high-level executives from various textile companies and
industry associations in Vietnam, ensuring that the findings reflected a wide spectrum of expertise
and industry roles (Table 1).
Interviewees were first asked to describe their organizations, including key products, markets, and
their roles within the companies. This established the context for their responses and provided
insights into their expertise related to the textile and garment industry. The core of the interview
focused on identifying and discussing significant trends shaping the industry. Open-ended questions
encouraged interviewees to share their perspectives on various topics related to megatrends and
their impact on Vietnam’s textile and garment industry. The interviews captured a broad range of
opinions and experiences, which were used to identify key challenges and opportunities for the
future of Vietnam’s textile and garment industry.
TABLE 1
INTERVIEW PARTICIPANTS
No.
Job Title
Gender
Organization
Date of the interview (VN time)
1
Vice General Director
Female
PPJ Group
25/04/2024
2
Vice General Director
Male
Dong Xuan Doximex
26/04/2024
3
General Director
Male
NASIKLMEX
09/05/2024
4
Vice General Director
Male
Hanosimex
14/05/2024
5
Director of Product
Development and Business Hub
Male
Vinatex
14/05/2024
6
Former Director
Male
Vietnam Textile
Research Institute
15/05/2024
7
Vice President/
General Secretary
Male
Vietnam Textile and
Apparel Association
15/05/2024
8
Vice Director
Male
Vinatex Nam Dinh
Yarn Factory
23/05/2024
9
Vice Director (Compliance and
Sustainable Development)
Female
Aqua Linea
07/06/2024
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 97
APPENDIX
Appendix 2: GTEM model and database
This study employs the Global Trade and Environment Model (GTEM) – a recursive dynamic,
multi-country, and multi-region computable general equilibrium (CGE) framework developed by
the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) – to analyze economic
activities (Nong et al., 2023, Lu et al., 2024). The GTEM model is grounded in neoclassical
economic theory, where rational agents operate in markets to maximize utility (for consumers) and
profits (for firms) subject to income and input constraints.
In GTEM, productive sectors require inputs to generate
outputs. Some inputs, like labor or raw materials, are essential and cannot be substituted, meaning
reductions in their use directly reduce output. Others, such as coal and gas, are substitutable. For
instance, when the price of coal rises, industries may opt to use more gas to reduce production
costs. The model’s production structure reflects these dynamics, grouping substitutable inputs to
capture such behavior. Substitution occurs at various levels, where inputs (e.g., A1, A2, ... An and
X1, X2, ... Xn) can be substituted for one another if they serve similar functions. Substitution rules,
governed by elasticity parameters, determine how industries switch between inputs, such as
shifting from coal to gas when the price differential reaches a certain threshold.
On the demand side, GTEM models consumer preferences for goods and services. Some consumers
exhibit flexibility, substituting similar goods like T-shirts and collared shirts based on price and
income. In contrast, preferences may be more specific in certain contexts, such as a preference for
T-shirts over collared shirts for sports activities. The model simulates demand using a representative
consumer, with demand functions that allow for varying levels of substitution between similar
goods or commodities. These functions incorporate substitution mechanisms to account for changes
in price or income. Common substitution functions include the constant elasticity of substitution
(CES), Leontief, constant ratios of elasticity of substitution–homothetic (CRESH), and constant
difference of elasticities (CDE).
In GTEM, various technologies are represented, including 15 electricity generation methods (e.g.,
coal, gas, solar, wind, hydroelectric), five land transportation technologies (ranging from
conventional internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles to hybrids and non-fossil alternatives),
two iron-steel manufacturing technologies, and specialized sectors such as ruminant meat and fish
processing.
Figures 2.1 and 2.2 illustrate the production structure in GTEM. At the top level, input demand is
split into two components: an assembly service and a technology bundle. These components are
combined using a Leontief function, meaning they are not substitutable. The assembly service
aggregates intermediate inputs through a Leontief function, a common feature in CGE models
(Hertel, 1997). The technology bundle, on the other hand, comprises specific inputs unique to each
technology. For example, coal-fired and nuclear electricity generation rely on distinct inputs,
which are substitutable through a CRESH function (Pant, 2007, Cai et al., 2015).
Each technology is characterized by a specific set of intermediate inputs with no substitution
allowed between them, as represented by the Leontief function. For example, coal-fired electricity
relies on coal and coal-specific inputs, while gas-fired electricity depends on natural gas and gas-
specific inputs. The primary factors of production, such as labor and capital, are combined using a
CES function, allowing for a degree of substitutability among them.
98 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
PRODUCTION STRUCTURE OF A ‘TECHNOLOGY BUNDLE’ INDUSTRY
Note: The technology bundle sectors are electricity generation, land transportation, iron & steel manufacturing, ruminant meat
processing, and fish processing. The supply of technology-specific inputs to the ‘technology bundle’ industries follow
the mechanism applied for all other sectors (i.e., ‘non-technology bundle’ industries). When a technology-specific input
is allocated to a ‘technology bundle’ industry, it cannot be substituted for other inputs or the same type of inputs from
other sectors. In other words, we only differentiate the demand for inputs.
FIGURE 2.1
Speciﬁc
factor k
Technology bundle
Leontief
Leontief
Leontief
Leontief
Leontief
Leontief
Technology 1
Technology n
Output
Other non-technology speciﬁc input
Intermediate input composite
Technology-speciﬁc
intermediate input n
Technology-speciﬁc
intermediate input 1
Factor composite
Factor 1
Factor n
Intermediate input composite
Factor composite
CES
CES
Technology-speciﬁc
intermediate input 1
Technology-speciﬁc
intermediate input k
Speciﬁc
factor 1
Imp
Dom
The production structure for industries outside the ‘technology’ and ‘processing’ bundles in GTEM,
as shown in Figure 2.2, includes sectors such as mining, manufacturing, agriculture, food
processing, and services. These industries employ production technologies that optimize input
selection using various functional forms, with the goal of minimizing production costs. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 99
APPENDIX
THE PRODUCTION STRUCTURE OF NON-PROCESSING BUNDLE AND NON-TECHNOLOGY BUNDLE INDUSTRIES.
Source: Pant (2007); Cai et al. (2015)
FIGURE 2.2
Source n
CES function
Import
Source 1
Source n
Source 1
Domestic
CES function
Nat.Res.
Capital
Labor
Land
Electricity
Petrol
Gas
Coal
CES Function
Factor composite
CES/Leontief Function
Energy-factor
composite
CRESH Function
Energy composite
Leontief Function
Output
Non-energy
intermediate input n
CES function
Source n
Source 1
CES function
Non-energy
intermediate input 1
In this study, we employ the GTAP database version 10a (which represents the world economy in
2014), with 141 countries and regions1 and 65 sectors2 (Aguiar et al., 2019). The database is then
aggregated into 22 countries/regions, including Vietnam and its trading partners of textile and
garment, and 46 industrial sectors, including supply chains of textile and garment industries
(Table 2.1).
1
https://www.gtap.agecon.purdue.edu/databases/regions.aspx?version=10
2
https://www.gtap.agecon.purdue.edu/databases/contribute/detailedsector.asp 100 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
TABLE 2.1
REGIONS AND SECTORS USED IN THIS STUDY
Regions
Sectors
1 China
1 Paddy rice
24	 Beverage & tobacco
2 India
2 Wheat
25 	Coal
3 Germany
3 Other grains
26 	Oil
4 Italy
4 Vegetable & fruit
27 	Gas
5 Vietnam
5 Oil seeds
28 	Petroleum product
6 Bangladesh
6 Cane beet
29 	Electricity generation
7 Turkiye
7 Fiber crops
30 	Other mining
8 USA
8 Other crops
31 	Iron & steel
9 Mexico
9 Live cattle
32 	Textile
10 	Indonesia
10 	Live pig
33 	Wearing
11 	Australia
11 	Live poultry
34 	Leather wood
12 	Japan
12 	Raw milk
35 	Paper related
13 	Republic of Korea (ROK)
13 	Cattle (meat)
36 	Other manufacturing
14 	Thailand
14 	Pork (meat)
37 	Chemicals
15 	UK
15 	Poultry (meat)
38 	Non-metallic
16 	Canada
16 	Fishery
39 	Electronic
17 	Africa
17 	Wool
40 	Furniture
18 	Rest of European Union
18 	Forestry
41 	Water & waste
19 	Rest of Europe
19 	Vegetable oils
42 	Warehouse
20 	Middle East
20 	Dairy milk
43 	Information & communication
21 	Rest Asia
21 	Processed rice
44 	Land transport
22 	Rest of America
22 	Sugar
45 	Other transport 23 	Other foods
46 	Services
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 101
APPENDIX
Appendix 3: Baseline values and changes relative to these baselines for
each scenario
IMPACT ON IMPORT OF NON-METALLIC MINERALS BY VIETNAM FROM MAJOR TRADING PARTNERS IN SELECTED YEARS
ACROSS SCENARIOS (% DEVIATIONS FROM THE BASELINE)
Note: The bars from left to right indicate scenarios S1-S12 in each country/region.
FIGURE 3.1
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
China
USA
Japan
ROK
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
China
USA
Japan
ROK
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S7
S8
S9
S10
S11
S12
2030
2045
102 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.1
BASELINE VALUES OF VIETNAM’S TEXTILE OUTPUT LEVEL AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD BILLION).
Year
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
Values (USD billion)
Base
65
70
75
79
83
86
89
92
94
96
98
Change (USD billion)
S1
0.195
0.448
0.555
0.577
0.490
0.301
-0.009
-0.524
-1.213
-2.122
-3.342
Change (USD billion)
S2
0.767
1.680
2.430
3.065
3.611
4.008
4.272
4.324
4.136
3.734
3.028
Change (USD billion)
S3
1.008
2.247
3.398
4.456
5.428
6.226
6.880
7.084
7.022
6.720
6.096
Change (USD billion)
S4
1.586
3.514
5.325
7.031
8.640
10.010
11.232
11.978
12.380
12.547
12.397
Change (USD billion)
S5
1.586
3.514
5.325
7.031
8.640
10.010
11.232
11.978
12.380
12.547
12.397
Change (USD billion)
S6
1.586
3.514
5.325
7.031
8.640
10.010
11.232
12.273
12.953
13.382
13.475
Change (USD billion)
S7
2.490
5.488
8.325
10.973
13.479
15.635
17.569
19.210
20.370
21.245
21.776
Change (USD billion)
S8
3.075
6.769
10.245
13.477
16.517
19.101
21.413
23.350
24.722
25.805
26.538
Change (USD billion)
S9
3.075
6.769
10.245
13.477
16.517
19.101
21.413
23.837
25.624
27.062
28.106
Change (USD billion)
S10
1.190
2.506
4.043
5.625
7.279
8.875
10.440
12.190
13.743
15.168
16.415
Change (USD billion)
S11
1.190
2.506
4.043
5.625
7.279
8.875
10.440
12.190
13.743
15.168
16.415
Change (USD billion)
S12
1.931
4.179
6.735
9.417
12.251
15.041
17.880
20.488
22.823
25.066
27.136 Year
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
Values (USD billion)
Base
99
100
100
100
99
97
96
93
91
87
85
Change (USD billion)
S1
-4.910
-7.140
-9.770
-13.030
-15.998
-18.702
-21.658
-23.752
-26.126
-27.301
-28.798
Change (USD billion)
S2
1.901
0.080
-2.240
-5.190
-8.009
-10.689
-13.632
-15.959
-18.564
-20.201
-22.066
Change (USD billion)
S3
5.000
3.210
0.860
-2.230
-5.366
-8.517
-12.038
-15.085
-18.418
-20.802
-23.341
Change (USD billion)
S4
11.712
10.320
8.270
5.540
2.594
-0.504
-3.946
-7.208
-10.729
-13.589
-16.533
Change (USD billion)
S5
11.712
10.320
8.270
5.790
3.069
0.165
-3.101
-6.222
-9.628
-12.441
-15.343
Change (USD billion)
S6
13.028
11.850
10.000
7.700
5.128
2.318
-0.835
-3.943
-7.326
-10.223
-13.192
Change (USD billion)
S7
21.671
20.840
19.200
17.170
14.642
11.756
8.573
5.124
1.511
-1.958
-5.398
Change (USD billion)
S8
26.572
25.890
24.330
22.410
19.899
16.946
13.747
10.109
6.379
2.584
-1.241
Change (USD billion)
S9
28.413
27.970
26.610
24.890
22.503
19.613
16.502
12.853
9.127
5.116
0.791
Change (USD billion)
S10
17.216
17.540
17.260
16.720
16.008
14.987
13.843
12.425
10.884
9.205
7.727
Change (USD billion)
S11
17.216
17.540
17.260
20.040
22.711
25.036
27.408
29.165
30.949
31.981
33.516
Change (USD billion)
S12
28.641
29.550
29.620
32.360
34.670
36.443
38.218
39.060
39.985
40.037
40.834
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 103
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.2
BASELINE VALUES OF VIETNAM’S WEARING OUTPUT LEVEL AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES
(USD BILLION). Year
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
Values (USD billion)
Base
47
53
59
63
66
69
72
75
77
79
81
Change (USD billion)
S1
0.301
0.641
1.003
1.329
1.624
1.904
2.174
2.415
2.603
2.797
2.940
Change (USD billion)
S2
0.710
1.595
2.555
3.503
4.422
5.375
6.358
7.328
8.216
9.140
10.028
Change (USD billion)
S3
0.682
1.585
2.655
3.774
4.917
6.120
7.380
8.513
9.533
10.578
11.583
Change (USD billion)
S4
1.100
2.560
4.278
6.073
7.913
9.874
11.952
13.920
15.747
17.633
19.497
Change (USD billion)
S5
1.100
2.560
4.278
6.073
7.913
9.874
11.952
13.920
15.747
17.633
19.497
Change (USD billion)
S6
1.100
2.560
4.278
6.073
7.913
9.874
11.952
14.258
16.447
18.707
20.955
Change (USD billion)
S7
2.040
4.791
7.995
11.359
14.824
18.533
22.471
26.670
30.646
34.744
38.840
Change (USD billion)
S8
2.656
6.259
10.455
14.862
19.411
24.274
29.434
34.868
39.978
45.228
50.463
Change (USD billion)
S9
2.656
6.259
10.455
14.862
19.411
24.274
29.434
35.865
42.004
48.293
54.554
Change (USD billion)
S10
2.336
5.279
9.145
13.438
18.110
23.322
29.095
35.888
42.812
50.363
58.498
Change (USD billion)
S11
2.336
5.279
9.145
13.438
18.110
23.322
29.095
35.888
42.812
50.363
58.498
Change (USD billion)
S12
3.591
8.295
14.467
21.439
29.146
37.888
47.722
58.283
69.077
80.880
93.677 Year
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
Values (USD billion)
Base
83
85
86
87
88
88
88
87
87
86
85
Change (USD billion)
S1
2.955
2.644
1.901
0.383
-1.408
-3.626
-6.292
-9.135
-12.711
-15.712
-18.624
Change (USD billion)
S2
10.807
11.229
11.085
10.118
8.782
6.838
4.356
1.479
-2.097
-5.272
-8.424
Change (USD billion)
S3
12.442
12.937
12.788
11.649
10.006
7.586
4.470
0.835
-3.611
-7.697
-11.730
Change (USD billion)
S4
21.248
22.576
23.100
22.559
21.393
19.210
16.210
12.432
7.882
3.474
-0.944
Change (USD billion)
S5
21.248
22.576
23.100
22.933
22.114
20.249
17.530
13.972
9.622
5.358
1.037
Change (USD billion)
S6
23.099
24.820
25.705
25.865
25.344
23.690
21.138
17.644
13.363
9.082
4.709
Change (USD billion)
S7
42.820
46.232
48.349
49.529
49.658
48.136
45.417
41.221
36.340
31.029
25.526
Change (USD billion)
S8
55.544
59.925
62.685
64.354
64.715
63.087
60.113
55.323
49.947
43.886
37.587
Change (USD billion)
S9
60.648
65.960
69.488
71.784
72.609
71.201
68.306
63.380
57.881
51.497
44.761
Change (USD billion)
S10
67.164
76.228
84.383
92.220
99.915
105.618
110.440
112.726
114.449
114.819
114.597
Change (USD billion)
S11
67.164
76.228
84.383
92.733
101.006
107.307
112.772
115.675
118.094
119.076
119.459
Change (USD billion)
S12
107.502
122.052
135.622
148.370
161.058
170.940
179.238
183.927
188.033
190.008
191.012
104 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.3
BASELINE VALUES OF TEXTILE EXPORT FROM VIETNAM AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD BILLION). 2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
Values (USD billion)
Base
49
52
55
58
61
63
65
67
68
69
70
Change (USD billion)
S1
0.300
0.640
0.740
0.730
0.590
0.350
-0.010
-0.570
-1.290
-2.210
-3.410
Change (USD billion)
S2
1.180
2.400
3.240
3.880
4.350
4.660
4.800
4.700
4.400
3.890
3.090
Change (USD billion)
S3
1.550
3.210
4.530
5.640
6.540
7.240
7.730
7.700
7.470
7.000
6.220
Change (USD billion)
S4
2.440
5.020
7.100
8.900
10.410
11.640
12.620
13.020
13.170
13.070
12.650
Change (USD billion)
S5
2.440
5.020
7.100
8.900
10.410
11.640
12.620
13.020
13.170
13.070
12.650
Change (USD billion)
S6
2.440
5.020
7.100
8.900
10.410
11.640
12.620
13.340
13.780
13.940
13.750
Change (USD billion)
S7
3.830
7.840
11.100
13.890
16.240
18.180
19.740
20.880
21.670
22.130
22.220
Change (USD billion)
S8
4.730
9.670
13.660
17.060
19.900
22.210
24.060
25.380
26.300
26.880
27.080
Change (USD billion)
S9
4.730
9.670
13.660
17.060
19.900
22.210
24.060
25.910
27.260
28.190
28.680
Change (USD billion)
S10
1.830
3.580
5.390
7.120
8.770
10.320
11.730
13.250
14.620
15.800
16.750
Change (USD billion)
S11
1.830
3.580
5.390
7.120
8.770
10.320
11.730
13.250
14.620
15.800
16.750
Change (USD billion)
S12
2.970
5.970
8.980
11.920
14.760
17.490
20.090
22.270
24.280
26.110
27.690 2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
Values (USD billion)
Base
71
71
71
70
68
66
65
62
60
56
54
Change (USD billion)
S1
-4.960
-7.140
-9.770
-13.030
-16.160
-19.280
-22.560
-25.540
-28.710
-31.380
-33.880
Change (USD billion)
S2
1.920
0.080
-2.240
-5.190
-8.090
-11.020
-14.200
-17.160
-20.400
-23.220
-25.960
Change (USD billion)
S3
5.050
3.210
0.860
-2.230
-5.420
-8.780
-12.540
-16.220
-20.240
-23.910
-27.460
Change (USD billion)
S4
11.830
10.320
8.270
5.540
2.620
-0.520
-4.110
-7.750
-11.790
-15.620
-19.450
Change (USD billion)
S5
11.830
10.320
8.270
5.790
3.100
0.170
-3.230
-6.690
-10.580
-14.300
-18.050
Change (USD billion)
S6
13.160
11.850
10.000
7.700
5.180
2.390
-0.870
-4.240
-8.050
-11.750
-15.520
Change (USD billion)
S7
21.890
20.840
19.200
17.170
14.790
12.120
8.930
5.510
1.660
-2.250
-6.350
Change (USD billion)
S8
26.840
25.890
24.330
22.410
20.100
17.470
14.320
10.870
7.010
2.970
-1.460
Change (USD billion)
S9
28.700
27.970
26.610
24.890
22.730
20.220
17.190
13.820
10.030
5.880
0.930
Change (USD billion)
S10
17.390
17.540
17.260
16.720
16.170
15.450
14.420
13.360
11.960
10.580
9.090
Change (USD billion)
S11
17.390
17.540
17.260
20.040
22.940
25.810
28.550
31.360
34.010
36.760
39.430
Change (USD billion)
S12
28.930
29.550
29.620
32.360
35.020
37.570
39.810
42.000
43.940
46.020
48.040
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 105
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.4
BASELINE VALUES OF WEARING EXPORT FROM VIETNAM AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD BILLION). 2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
Values (USD billion)
Base
41
47
52
56
59
61
64
67
68
70
72
Change (USD billion)
S1
0.640
1.210
1.700
2.110
2.460
2.760
3.020
3.220
3.380
3.540
3.630
Change (USD billion)
S2
1.510
3.010
4.330
5.560
6.700
7.790
8.830
9.770
10.670
11.570
12.380
Change (USD billion)
S3
1.450
2.990
4.500
5.990
7.450
8.870
10.250
11.350
12.380
13.390
14.300
Change (USD billion)
S4
2.340
4.830
7.250
9.640
11.990
14.310
16.600
18.560
20.450
22.320
24.070
Change (USD billion)
S5
2.340
4.830
7.250
9.640
11.990
14.310
16.600
18.560
20.450
22.320
24.070
Change (USD billion)
S6
2.340
4.830
7.250
9.640
11.990
14.310
16.600
19.010
21.360
23.680
25.870
Change (USD billion)
S7
4.340
9.040
13.550
18.030
22.460
26.860
31.210
35.560
39.800
43.980
47.950
Change (USD billion)
S8
5.650
11.810
17.720
23.590
29.410
35.180
40.880
46.490
51.920
57.250
62.300
Change (USD billion)
S9
5.650
11.810
17.720
23.590
29.410
35.180
40.880
47.820
54.550
61.130
67.350
Change (USD billion)
S10
4.970
9.960
15.500
21.330
27.440
33.800
40.410
47.850
55.600
63.750
72.220
Change (USD billion)
S11
4.970
9.960
15.500
21.330
27.440
33.800
40.410
47.850
55.600
63.750
72.220
Change (USD billion)
S12
7.640
15.650
24.520
34.030
44.160
54.910
66.280
77.710
89.710
102.380
115.650 2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
Values (USD billion)
Base
74
75
76
77
78
78
78
77
76
76
74
Change (USD billion)
S1
3.560
3.110
2.210
0.440
-1.600
-4.120
-7.150
-10.500
-14.610
-18.270
-21.910
Change (USD billion)
S2
13.020
13.210
12.890
11.630
9.980
7.770
4.950
1.700
-2.410
-6.130
-9.910
Change (USD billion)
S3
14.990
15.220
14.870
13.390
11.370
8.620
5.080
0.960
-4.150
-8.950
-13.800
Change (USD billion)
S4
25.600
26.560
26.860
25.930
24.310
21.830
18.420
14.290
9.060
4.040
-1.110
Change (USD billion)
S5
25.600
26.560
26.860
26.360
25.130
23.010
19.920
16.060
11.060
6.230
1.220
Change (USD billion)
S6
27.830
29.200
29.890
29.730
28.800
26.920
24.020
20.280
15.360
10.560
5.540
Change (USD billion)
S7
51.590
54.390
56.220
56.930
56.430
54.700
51.610
47.380
41.770
36.080
30.030
Change (USD billion)
S8
66.920
70.500
72.890
73.970
73.540
71.690
68.310
63.590
57.410
51.030
44.220
Change (USD billion)
S9
73.070
77.600
80.800
82.510
82.510
80.910
77.620
72.850
66.530
59.880
52.660
Change (USD billion)
S10
80.920
89.680
98.120
106.000
113.540
120.020
125.500
129.570
131.550
133.510
134.820
Change (USD billion)
S11
80.920
89.680
98.120
106.590
114.780
121.940
128.150
132.960
135.740
138.460
140.540
Change (USD billion)
S12
129.520
143.590
157.700
170.540
183.020
194.250
203.680
211.410
216.130
220.940
224.720
106 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.5
BASELINE VALUES OF EXPORT OF FIBERS FROM MAIN TRADING PARTNERS TO VIETNAM AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE
TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD MILLION). Scenario
2030
2045
India
USA
Africa
Latin America
India
USA
Africa
Latin America
Value (USD million)
Base
634
1,810
1,432
757
651
3,584
3,436
1,558
Changes (USD million)
S1
-167
-62
132
-28
-474
-296
790
-122
Changes (USD million)
S2
-156
-28
164
-13
-469
-233
876
-93
Changes (USD million)
S3
-142
19
210
7
-465
-158
986
-58
Changes (USD million)
S4
-130
53
243
21
-459
-92
1,076
-28
Changes (USD million)
S5
-130
53
243
21
-458
-81
1,092
-22
Changes (USD million)
S6
-130
53
243
21
-456
-59
1,120
-13
Changes (USD million)
S7
-114
103
290
44
-450
20
1,228
24
Changes (USD million)
S8
-104
134
320
57
-446
68
1,294
46
Changes (USD million)
S9
-104
134
320
57
-443
103
1,340
62
Changes (USD million)
S10
-145
5
194
1
-447
-2
1,184
11
Changes (USD million)
S11
-145
5
194
1
-431
138
1,370
72
Changes (USD million)
S12
-102
101
200
46
-392
371
1,349
140
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 107
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.6
BASELINE VALUES OF EXPORT OF CHEMICALS FROM MAIN TRADING PARTNERS TO VIETNAM AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO
RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD MILLION). 2030
China
India
Germany
USA
Indonesia
Japan
ROK
Thailand
UK
Middle
East
Rest
Asia
Value (USD million)
Base
14,584
1,635
739
3,292
4,838
2,184
5,547
3,469
492
4,658
18,354
Changes (USD million)
S1
-6,828
620
-277
-1,560
-2,016
1,419
4,391
2,681
-222
3,356
376
Changes (USD million)
S2
-6,799
629
-275
-1,554
-2,003
1,431
4,424
2,703
-221
3,385
444
Changes (USD million)
S3
-6,878
611
-280
-1,572
-2,029
1,407
4,352
2,670
-224
3,337
295
Changes (USD million)
S4
-6,856
618
-279
-1,567
-2,019
1,417
4,377
2,687
-223
3,359
347
Changes (USD million)
S5
-6,856
618
-279
-1,567
-2,019
1,417
4,377
2,687
-223
3,359
347
Changes (USD million)
S6
-6,856
618
-279
-1,567
-2,019
1,417
4,377
2,687
-223
3,359
347
Changes (USD million)
S7
-6,815
631
-276
-1,558
-2,001
1,434
4,423
2,717
-222
3,400
440
Changes (USD million)
S8
-6,786
640
-274
-1,552
-1,988
1,446
4,455
2,738
-221
3,429
505
Changes (USD million)
S9
-6,786
640
-274
-1,552
-1,988
1,446
4,455
2,738
-221
3,429
505
Changes (USD million)
S10
-6,996
577
-287
-1,599
-2,066
1,349
4,195
2,574
-228
3,210
-6
Changes (USD million)
S11
-6,996
577
-287
-1,599
-2,066
1,349
4,195
2,574
-228
3,210
-6
Changes (USD million)
S12
-7,118
553
-289
-1,593
-2,154
1,363
4,176
2,522
-228
3,244
-114 2045
Value (USD million)
Base
40,038
4,412
1,052
3,857
20,202
4,491
9,990
5,777
1,023
15,440
27,953
Changes (USD million)
S1
-31,858
10,465
-785
-3,287
-11,691
13,172
23,742
17,473
-775
15,707
-10,530
Changes (USD million)
S2
-31,834
10,507
-784
-3,286
-11,667
13,221
23,832
17,534
-775
15,786
-10,491
Changes (USD million)
S3
-31,698
10,822
-780
-3,277
-11,481
13,579
24,423
17,839
-771
16,383
-10,222
Changes (USD million)
S4
-31,690
10,838
-779
-3,276
-11,471
13,600
24,456
17,862
-770
16,408
-10,208
Changes (USD million)
S5
-31,686
10,843
-779
-3,276
-11,467
13,605
24,466
17,869
-770
16,417
-10,206
Changes (USD million)
S6
-31,682
10,850
-779
-3,276
-11,463
13,613
24,479
17,879
-770
16,430
-10,200
Changes (USD million)
S7
-31,658
10,894
-779
-3,274
-11,438
13,664
24,569
17,939
-770
16,507
-10,161
Changes (USD million)
S8
-31,646
10,918
-778
-3,273
-11,426
13,693
24,619
17,973
-769
16,549
-10,139
Changes (USD million)
S9
-31,638
10,931
-778
-3,273
-11,418
13,708
24,646
17,991
-769
16,573
-10,127
Changes (USD million)
S10
-31,738
10,762
-782
-3,281
-11,511
13,468
24,200
17,708
-772
16,155
-10,354
Changes (USD million)
S11
-31,742
10,749
-782
-3,282
-11,505
13,448
24,155
17,689
-773
16,104
-10,385
Changes (USD million)
S12
-31,890
10,629
-780
-3,263
-11,749
13,190
23,907
17,560
-772
16,400
-10,169 108 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.7
BASELINE VALUES OF EXPORT OF NON-METALLIC MINERALS FROM MAIN TRADING PARTNERS TO VIETNAM AND CHANGES IN EACH
SCENARIO RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD MILLION). 2030
2045
China
USA
Japan
ROK
China
USA
Japan
ROK
Value (USD million)
Base
2,306
228
591
295
7,771
564
2,688
889
Changes (USD million)
S1
-17
-3
34
-59
-138
32
1,140
-349
Changes (USD million)
S2
-11
-3
35
-58
-120
34
1,148
-348
Changes (USD million)
S3
18
0
43
-55
176
57
1,299
-328
Changes (USD million)
S4
24
0
45
-55
193
59
1,307
-328
Changes (USD million)
S5
24
0
45
-55
197
59
1,308
-328
Changes (USD million)
S6
24
0
45
-55
203
59
1,311
-327
Changes (USD million)
S7
35
2
48
-54
236
62
1,327
-325
Changes (USD million)
S8
43
2
50
-53
255
63
1,335
-325
Changes (USD million)
S9
43
2
50
-53
265
64
1,340
-324
Changes (USD million)
S10
4
-2
39
-57
257
63
1,334
-324
Changes (USD million)
S11
4
-2
39
-57
280
64
1,344
-323
Changes (USD million)
S12
-10
1
45
-57
298
83
1,376
-309
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 109
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.8
BASELINE VALUES OF EXPORT OF TEXTILE FROM MAIN TRADING PARTNERS TO VIETNAM AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE
TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD MILLION). 2030
China
India
Turkiye
Indonesia
Japan
ROK
Thailand
Value (USD million)
Base
38,912
4,223
535
2,351
1,294
6,072
2,369
Changes (USD million)
S1
-1,735
-898
32
1,088
2,499
2,641
266
Changes (USD million)
S2
-459
-781
52
1,214
2,649
2,990
359
Changes (USD million)
S3
47
-736
60
1,271
2,723
3,148
394
Changes (USD million)
S4
1,397
-612
82
1,406
2,884
3,521
492
Changes (USD million)
S5
1,397
-612
82
1,406
2,884
3,521
492
Changes (USD million)
S6
1,397
-612
82
1,406
2,884
3,521
492
Changes (USD million)
S7
4,066
-368
124
1,671
3,191
4,229
685
Changes (USD million)
S8
5,790
-210
151
1,842
3,390
4,688
810
Changes (USD million)
S9
5,790
-210
151
1,842
3,390
4,688
810
Changes (USD million)
S10
2,020
-554
92
1,470
2,939
3,652
536
Changes (USD million)
S11
2,020
-554
92
1,470
2,939
3,652
536
Changes (USD million)
S12
5,249
174
219
1,701
2,253
4,265
1,264 2045
Value (USD million)
Base
46,464
7,826
444
4,570
744
4,125
2,692
Changes (USD million)
S1
-5,957
-2,626
117
2,876
6,759
1,398
626
Changes (USD million)
S2
-3,661
-2,312
149
3,305
7,210
1,732
813
Changes (USD million)
S3
-3,234
-2,273
155
3,410
7,288
1,767
824
Changes (USD million)
S4
-836
-1,942
188
3,861
7,763
2,115
1,018
Changes (USD million)
S5
-400
-1,885
194
3,944
7,849
2,178
1,053
Changes (USD million)
S6
409
-1,774
205
4,095
8,007
2,295
1,119
Changes (USD million)
S7
4,577
-1,208
262
4,874
8,816
2,889
1,457
Changes (USD million)
S8
6,956
-883
295
5,319
9,280
3,229
1,649
Changes (USD million)
S9
8,331
-697
314
5,577
9,546
3,424
1,759
Changes (USD million)
S10
11,658
-190
358
6,207
10,145
3,875
2,028
Changes (USD million)
S11
13,247
101
379
6,554
10,605
4,214
2,162
Changes (USD million)
S12
25,272
5,729
830
8,040
4,516
2,562
4,742 110 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.9
BASELINE VALUES OF EXPORT OF WEARING FROM MAIN TRADING PARTNERS TO VIETNAM AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO
RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD MILLION). 2030
2045
China
ROK
Thailand
China
ROK
Thailand
Value (USD million)
Base
20,501
742
80
24,705
530
113
Changes (USD million)
S1
1,080
-7
-12
2,547
-264
-47
Changes (USD million)
S2
1,669
17
-10
3,553
-253
-44
Changes (USD million)
S3
2,103
35
-8
4,024
-250
-44
Changes (USD million)
S4
2,739
62
-6
5,092
-238
-42
Changes (USD million)
S5
2,739
62
-6
5,287
-236
-41
Changes (USD million)
S6
2,739
62
-6
5,655
-232
-40
Changes (USD million)
S7
4,127
117
-2
7,713
-210
-35
Changes (USD million)
S8
5,045
154
1
8,931
-198
-32
Changes (USD million)
S9
5,045
154
1
9,657
-190
-31
Changes (USD million)
S10
3,686
96
-3
11,881
-166
-26
Changes (USD million)
S11
3,686
96
-3
12,538
-154
-24
Changes (USD million)
S12
5,593
361
28
18,094
19
80 NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 111
APPENDIX
TABLE 3.10
BASELINE VALUES OF VIETNAM’S GDP AND CHANGES IN EACH SCENARIO RELATIVE TO THE BASELINE VALUES (USD MILLION). 2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
Value (USD billion)
Base
510
569
597
625
656
687
721
750
781
814
847
Changes (USD billion)
S1
1.73
4.10
7.10
10.50
14.37
18.69
23.50
28.35
33.50
39.07
44.81
Changes (USD billion)
S2
1.99
4.67
7.94
11.63
15.81
20.47
25.60
30.68
36.16
42.00
48.02
Changes (USD billion)
S3
5.10
11.44
18.69
26.69
35.56
45.14
55.59
65.33
75.52
86.37
97.49
Changes (USD billion)
S4
5.36
12.01
19.58
27.94
37.13
47.06
57.82
67.88
78.49
89.62
101.05
Changes (USD billion)
S5
5.36
12.01
19.58
27.94
37.13
47.06
57.82
67.88
78.49
89.62
101.05
Changes (USD billion)
S6
5.36
12.01
19.58
27.94
37.13
47.06
57.82
68.03
78.72
90.03
101.64
Changes (USD billion)
S7
5.81
13.09
21.25
30.25
40.08
50.70
62.15
73.05
84.35
96.30
108.42
Changes (USD billion)
S8
6.12
13.77
22.33
31.75
42.05
53.04
64.96
76.20
87.94
100.20
112.65
Changes (USD billion)
S9
6.12
13.77
22.33
31.75
42.05
53.04
64.96
76.50
88.57
101.10
113.84
Changes (USD billion)
S10
5.61
12.52
20.60
29.63
39.75
50.70
62.73
74.40
86.77
99.96
113.58
Changes (USD billion)
S11
5.61
12.52
20.60
29.63
39.75
50.70
62.73
74.40
86.77
99.96
113.58
Changes (USD billion)
S12
5.71
12.80
21.19
30.56
41.07
52.49
65.11
77.40
90.44
104.35
118.75 2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2045
Value (USD billion)
Base
882
916
951
987
1,025
1,064
1,101
1,139
1,178 1219.000
1262.000
Changes (USD billion)
S1
50.89
56.88
63.15
69.09
75.34
81.50
87.75
93.85
100.01
106.42
112.95
Changes (USD billion)
S2
54.42
60.73
67.14
73.43
79.75
86.18
92.59
98.75
105.08
111.54
118.25
Changes (USD billion)
S3
109.10
120.64
132.28
142.92
153.75
164.49
174.84
184.86
194.72
204.79
214.79
Changes (USD billion)
S4
112.98
124.76
136.56
147.46
158.47
169.28
179.68
189.76
199.67
209.67
219.59
Changes (USD billion)
S5
112.98
124.76
136.56
147.56
158.57
169.50
180.01
190.10
200.02
210.03
220.09
Changes (USD billion)
S6
113.60
125.49
137.42
148.54
159.59
170.67
181.11
191.24
201.08
211.13
221.10
Changes (USD billion)
S7
120.92
133.28
145.60
156.93
168.31
179.39
189.92
200.01
209.80
219.79
229.68
Changes (USD billion)
S8
125.42
138.04
150.54
161.97
173.33
184.50
194.99
205.02
214.75
224.66
234.48
Changes (USD billion)
S9
126.92
139.69
152.35
163.94
175.38
186.52
196.97
206.96
216.75
226.49
236.25
Changes (USD billion)
S10
127.80
142.16
156.63
170.36
184.09
197.69
210.62
223.02
235.01
246.85
258.46
Changes (USD billion)
S11
127.80
142.16
156.63
171.15
185.73
200.14
213.81
226.89
239.61
252.09
264.14
Changes (USD billion)
S12
133.89
149.03
164.52
180.03
195.47
210.78
225.04
238.73
251.86
264.52
276.76
112 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
LIST OF AUTHORS
Dr. Hien Pham
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), Australia
Dr. Duy Nong
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), Australia
Centre for Applied Energy Economics and Policy Research, Griffith University, Australia
Dr. Sara Quach Thaichon
Griffith University, Australia
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 113
GLOSSARIES
Conditional Frontier Model
A model that assesses an industry’s performance relative to its most efficient firms, considering
existing barriers such as limited technology access or capital. This conditional frontier represents
the maximum productivity achievable under these constraints.
Energy Efficiency
A measure of the amount of energy used relative to the output produced. In the textile and garment
industry, it reflects how effectively energy is utilized in production, impacting both sustainability
and cost.
Frontier Model
A model that determines the relative efficiency of similar decision-making units (DMUs) by
comparing their input-output performance against a best-practice frontier. This frontier represents
the optimal input-output combinations, allowing for efficiency comparisons across DMUs.
Labor Productivity
The ratio of total output per hour worked. It measures how efficiently labor input is combined with
other production factors to generate output. In the textile and garment sector, labor productivity
indicates workforce utilization efficiency and competitiveness.
Technical Efficiency
The ability to either reduce input quantities proportionally without affecting output (input-oriented)
or increase output proportionally without changing input quantities (output-oriented) to achieve
cost, revenue, or profit efficiency within a system.
Total Factor Productivity (TFP)
TFP reflects the overall efficiency with which labor and capital inputs are used together in the
production process. Changes in TFP indicate effects from improved management practices,
branding, organizational changes, knowledge, network effects, spillovers from production factors,
adjustment costs, economies of scale, imperfect competition, and measurement errors.
Unconditional Frontier Model
A model that estimates industry productivity if all barriers to technology and capital were removed,
reflecting the highest efficiency achievable without current constraints.
114 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
LIST OF FIGURES
2. CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Figure 1
Distribution of number of firms and labor across Vietnam textile and garment subsectors in 2022  5
Figure 2
Labor growth across garment and textile subsectors 6
Figure 3
Average monthly wage across countries  7
Figure 4
Labor by gender and education level across textile and garment industry in Vietnam  8
Figure 5
Growth rate of Real monthly wage of employees across countries in the period 2010-2020 10
Figure 6
Vietnam’s textile and garment productivity growth 11
Figure 7
Labor productivity growth across textile and garment subsectors over 2009-2022 period....12
Figure 8
Distance between the 3% most productive firms and the remaining 97% of firms across garment and textile subsectors over time 13
Figure 9
Labor productivity growth decomposition across textile and garment subsector in the 2009-2022 period 14
Figure 10
Dynamic conditional frontier model 16
Figure 11
TFP decompositions over time across garment and textile subsectors in 2009-2022 in Vietnam 17
Figure 12
Energy use intensity and distribution in Vietnam’s textile and garment sectors 19
Figure 13
Vietnam increasingly shifted toward energy-intensified production over time  20
Figure 14
Energy consumption decomposition in a textile factory 21
Figure 15
Energy consumption decomposition in a garment factory  24
Figure 16
Vietnam’s textile and garment export-import balances 25
Figure 17
Net export across textile and garment subsectors in Vietnam over time  28
Figure 18
Textile and garment industry supply chain smiling curve 29
3. MEGATRENDS IN THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Figure 19
Key megatrends impacting the Vietnam’s textile and garment industry 30
Figure 20
A snapshot of some sustainability regulations in key importing markets as of 05/07/2024 32
Figure 21
A snapshot of some sustainability standards and certifications 35
Figure 22
Global Supply Chain Pressure Index (GSCPI) 37
Figure 23
Global fiber production (million tons) 40
Figure 24
Key technologies in Industry 4.0 43
Figure 25
Acceleration of skill shifts (% of time) 49
Figure 26
Garment workers’ average wage compared to other industries’ workers’ wages (VND) 51
4. SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Figure 27
Impacts on Vietnam’s textile and garment output levels across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 69
Figure 28
Impacts on Vietnam’s textile and wearing export levels across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 71
Figure 29
Impact on import of fibers by Vietnam from major trading partners in selected years across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 72
Figure 30
Impact on import of chemicals by Vietnam from major trading partners in selected years across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 73
NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY | 115
Figure 31
Impact on import of textile by Vietnam from major trading partners in selected years across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 74
Figure 32
Impact on import of apparel by Vietnam from major trading partners in selected years across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 75
APPENDIX
Figure 2.1
Production structure of a ‘technology bundle’ industry 98
Figure 2.2
The production structure of non-processing bundle and non-technology bundle industries 99
Figure 3.1
Impact on import of non-metallic minerals by Vietnam from major trading partners in selected years across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 101
116 | NATIONAL STRATEGY TO BOOST VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
LIST OF TABLES
2. CURRENT STATE OF THE TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY IN VIETNAM
Table 1 Some statistics for Vietnam garment and textile over time (Source: WB, 2024 and GSO) (*: all values are in real terms with 2010 as the base year)  4
4. SCENARIOS FOR VIETNAM’S TEXTILE AND GARMENT INDUSTRY: A GENERAL EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
OF GREEN GROWTH AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS
Table 2
Common shocks for world’s textile and garment industries 60
Table 3
Four main scenarios focusing on Vietnam’s textile and garment industries 61
Table 4
Shocks prepared for scenarios for impact decomposition analysis 62
Table 5
Impact on Vietnam’s real GDP across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 67
Table 6
Impacts on Vietnam’s textile and garment output levels across scenarios (% deviations from the baseline) 67
Table 7
Baseline values of Vietnam’s GDP and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  76
APPENDIX
Table 1
Interview participants 96
Table 2.1
Regions and sectors used in this study 100
Table 3.1
Baseline values of Vietnam’s textile output level and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  102
Table 3.2
Baseline values of Vietnam’s wearing output level and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  103
Table 3.3
Baseline values of textile export from Vietnam and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  104
Table 3.4
Baseline values of wearing export from Vietnam and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  105
Table 3.5
Baseline values of export of fibers from main trading partners to Vietnam and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  106
Table 3.6
Baseline values of export of chemicals from main trading partners to Vietnam and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  107
Table 3.7
Baseline values of export of non-metallic minerals from main trading partners to Vietnam and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  108
Table 3.8
Baseline values of export of textile from main trading partners to Vietnam and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  109
Table 3.9
Baseline values of export of wearing from main trading partners to Vietnam and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  110
Table 3.10
Baseline values of Vietnam’s GDP and changes in each scenario relative to the baseline values  111